URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/commodities/news/large-supplies-rise-in-us-inventories-to-drag-oil-prices-lower-in-near-term/articleshow/53694443.cms

Title : Large supplies, rise in US inventories to drag oil prices lower in near term - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : WTI,MCX oil prices,crude oil market,Brent

Date : Aug 14, 2016, 11.25 AM IST

Document ID : 600

Content:
 By Naveen Mathur    Oil prices changed course over the past fortnight with WTI and Brent gaining by around 1.4 per cent and 3.16 per cent, respectively, while MCX oil prices gained by around 1.44 per cent during the same time frame.     Oil prices hit 2016 highs above $50 a barrel between late May and June as crude supplies tightened due to disruptions in Canada, Nigeria and Libya, and a near economic meltdown in Opec member Venezuela. The rally faded soon after, as higher prices spurred more output of crude and refined products.     The crude oil market has been plagued by global oversupply conditions for the past two years. A global glut of refined products is a relatively new phenomenon, a result of refiners boosting production last year and early this year to cash in on cheaper crude supply and large margins.       Refining margins in Singapore have dropped to a two-year low at around $2.94 a barrel, indicating that the industry is pumping too much fuel than the actual demand.     Singapore's light distillate inventories have swollen by over 2 million barrels since late June to 15.1 million currently, a near record level, as refiners put unsold fuel into storage.     Adding to the renewed worries about a global crude glut, top crude exporter Saudi Arabia told the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) that the kingdom's output reached a record high of 10.7 million barrels per day in July.     Top oil exporter Saudi Arabia boosted its output to a record high in July, in a sign that key members have remained focused on market share rather than tackling a supply glut by curbing production.     The kingdom pumped 10.67 million barrels per day in July. Also, US crude inventories rose 1.1 million barrels in the week ended August 5, the US Energy Information Administration (EIA) reported, in a third consecutive weekly buildup that surprised the market.    Outlook   Super buildup of product inventories across the globe and absolute rise in oil inventories in the US are push factors for oil prices to head lower in the near term.     Comments from Saudi Arabia that it pumped in record amount of crude in July also worsened the situation. Falling refining margins in Singapore is an indication of product overhang in Asia, which will exert downside pressure on oil prices over the next fortnight.     Saudi Arabia has cut crude selling price to Asian customers, signalling another price war and a tussle for market share. Hedge funds and other speculators have turned more bearish toward crude and refined products in the last two months amid signs of a gasoline glut indicating that oil prices will be in trouble in the months ahead.     Over the next fortnight, WTI oil prices (CMP: $41.28 a barrel) might head lower towards $37 in the international markets while MCX oil prices (CMP: Rs 2,767 a barrel) can move lower towards Rs 2,600 a barrel.     (Naveen Mathur is Associate Director of Commodities & Currencies Business, Equity Research & Advisory at Angel Broking. He analyses the crude oil market trends in this space every fortnight. Views expressed in this writeup are his own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com)  

