URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/rising-stars-10-stocks-that-gave-over-40-return-in-last-one-year/articleshow/53738723.cms

Title : Rising stars: 10 stocks that gave over 40% return in last one year - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Nifty50,nifty,investments

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.16 PM IST

Document ID : 461

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The next batch of rising stars is likely to emerge from Nifty Next50, which represents approximately 10 per cent of the traded value of all stocks on the National Stock Exchange of India.     If we compare returns on an absolute basis, the Nifty Next50 rose by about 6 per cent compared with a nearly 2 per cent gain in the Nifty50 in the same period.     One of the prime reasons for the underperformance of the Nifty50 was the sectoral weight, which favours the BFSI segment as well as technology. Financial services and information technology contribute nearly 41 per cent to the overall weightage in the Nifty50, in which banking itself has more than 20 per cent weightage.     Although the underperformance weighed on the indices across the exchange, experts think the Nifty Next50 is in a better shape to deal with such underperformance in the future, as it is more diversified.     "The Nifty Next50 is well diversified, having more dominance of consumer companies and leaving no scope for something to happen like this. Hence, we would advise investors to bet on Nifty Next50 rather than Nifty50," Abnish Kumar Sudhanshu, Director & Research Head, Amrapali Aadya Trading & Investments, told ETMarkets.com.      About 10 stocks rose more than 10 per cent in the last one year, which includes Bajaj Finance, JSW Steel, Vedanta, Shree Cements, Hindustan Zinc, Shriram Transport, NHPC, Indian Oil, HPCL and Bajaj Finserv.     "The components of Nifty Next50 can be called rising stars on account of their marvellous quarterly performance. Moreover, stocks like Bajaj Finance, Marico, Pidilite, Shree cement, Godrej Consumers, Britannia, LIC Housing Finance and Castrol have outperformed their peers over time," he said.     He said the above selection of stocks is based on revenue growth, EPS growth, return on equity, healthy operating margin along with returns generated over time.     The Nifty Next50 is an index for companies on the National Stock Exchange of India. It represents the next rung of liquid securities after the Nifty50. The composition of the Nifty Next50 is well-diversified compared with the Nifty50.     "The Nifty Next50 represents the next rung of liquid securities after the Nifty50. It consists of 50 companies representing approximately 10 per cent of the traded value of all stocks on the National Stock Exchange of India," Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha, told ETMarkets.com.     Kamath said the rally witnessed hitherto in the Nifty Next50 has favoured companies in the index as the overall environment of doing business in India is getting easier.     "This by itself should not be a reason to move the direction of investment from the largest 50 companies in the Nifty50, but we do see the overall direction of growth moving into these companies from the erstwhile leaders," he said.     The composition of this index largely mimics the Nifty50 with may have lesser weightage for the banking sector. Investors who have an investment horizon of over one year can definitely look at this basket to diversify their existing portfolios.     More than 50 per cent of the components in the Nifty Next50 index still trade in the green, if we take the performance of last one year. For effective portfolio building, investors should diversify funds in both Nifty50 as Nifty Next50, experts said.     "Based on the recent performance, these could definitely be categorised as rising stars. We believe a combination of Next50 and the traditional Nifty companies is required to maintain an optimum portfolio," Kamath said.  

