URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/plan/family-finances-linking-goals-to-investment-to-help-24-year-old-teja-achieve-objectives-easily/articleshow/53569118.cms

Title : Family Finances: Linking goals to investment to help 24-year-old Teja achieve objectives easily - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : PPF,financial plan,family finances,ET Wealth,EPF

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 383

Content:
  Dharma Teja boasts a rare combination of ability and circumstance. At 24 years, this IIT graduate is in a high-paying job and is intent on streamlining his finances. His portfolio is not without flaws, but the net worth is already Rs 18.95 lakh, thanks to aggressive saving and investment. He has 79% invested in equity in the form of stocks and mutual funds, while the remaining 21% is in debt as fixed deposit, EPF and PPF. He has also bought life and health insurance. There is lack of clarity when it comes to setting of goals, but he is young and can easily find focus with time. For now, Chethan Shenoy of Anand Rathi Private Wealth Management will set him on a course that will serve as a guideline and help secure his financial future.    Existing financial status   Teja works in a private firm in Mumbai and brings in a monthly salary of Rs 72,000. He also earns an additional Rs 25,000 through a part-time job. This brings the total to Rs 97,000, of which Rs 20,000 goes in household expenses. He pays Rs 4,835 as insurance premium and invests Rs 25,000 in mutual funds through SIPs. This leaves him with a surplus of Rs 47,165 a month. As for his goals, he wants to build an emergency corpus, go in for higher education in a couple of years, get married, buy land and save for retirment. "Buying real estate in my home town has been a dream for me," says Teja. However, Shenoy suggests that it is not a good idea to invest in property at this stage and should put off this goal for now. Teja's portfolio includes Rs 9 lakh in mutual funds, Rs 6 lakh in stocks, Rs 1.5 lakh as cash, Rs 1 lakh as fixed deposit, Rs 90,000 as EPF corpus and Rs 55,000 in the PPF. Before Shenoy prepares a plan, he will analyse Teja's insurance portfolio.    Insurance portfolio   Teja has a term plan of Rs 75 lakh and a traditional insurance plan. Shenoy suggests that he hold the former but should surrender the expensive traditional cover not just because its returns are unlikely to beat inflation, but also because it's not a good idea to mix insurance with investment. Teja has also bought a Rs 5 lakh health cover, which is a good decision. However, he is advised to raise this amount to Rs 10 lakh, which will cost him Rs 7,500 a year. He should also purchase a critical illness plan worth Rs 5 lakh and a Rs 25 lakh accident disability plan, both of which will cost him Rs 6,300 a year in premium. This will take care of his insurance needs.    Road map for the future   To start with, Teja should have an emergency corpus for eventualities. He will need about Rs 60,000, which is equal to his three months' expenses. This can be sourced from his cash holding and should be invested in a liquid fund for easy access and higher returns. Teja can now focus on his other goals, the first of which is to amass Rs 18.15 lakh for his higher education in a couple of years. He is not clear whether he should take a loan, but Shenoy suggests that he avoid this as he has sufficient funds to help accumulate the given amount. To achieve this goal, he should allocate his stocks and mutual fund corpus of Rs 15 lakh and invest it in a debt-oriented balanced fund, which will invest 70% in debt and 30% in equity. This will help him amass Rs 18.38 lakh in the specified period. This will leave him with a surplus amount of Rs 23,000. Teja wants to get married in another four years, for which he will need Rs 6.8 lakh. To meet this goal, Teja can allocate his remaining cash corpus and fixed deposit, as well Rs 23,000 left from the higher education goal. This should be invested in a diversified equity fund. To make up for the shortfall, he will need to start an SIP of Rs 4,700 in an equity fund. This will yield the desired amount in the specified time. Finally, for retirement, he will need Rs 3.2 crore in 34 years since he wants to stop working at 58. For this, his EPF and PPF corpuses have been allocated. These funds will amount to Rs 7.45 crore at the time of retirement, and he doesn't need to make any further investment. After investing for all these goals, he will be left with a surplus of Rs 68,317. Till the time he identifies his other goals, Teja can invest this amount in a diversified equity fund (70% equity and 30% debt), which will help in wealth creation.        (Financial plan by Chethan Shenoy, Associate Director, Products & Financial Strategy, Anand Rathi Private Wealth Management)      

