URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/hr-leadership/people/with-indiloom-munmun-biswas-carves-a-niche-in-the-handloom-sector/articleshow/53689096.cms

Title : With Indiloom, Munmun Biswas carves a niche in the handloom sector - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Munmun Biswas,IIFT,handloom sector

Date :  Aug 14, 2016, 06.20 AM IST

Document ID : 764

Content:
  Don't show us these Dalit designs and colours... show us something exquisite." Munmun Biswas is used to hearing such stinging comments from buyers who are not able to appreciate some original work by Dalits. Not deterred by such acerbic responses, she opened her online venture called indiloom.com in 2015, which aims at connecting craft practitioners from across the country. Such was her zeal to carve a niche in the handloom sector that after doing her master's from Ramjas College, Delhi, she did a four-year graduation course from NIFT, Kolkata, and later topped that with an MBA from IIFT, Kolkata.     ALSO READ: Dalit achievers overcome odds even as atrocities rise     "We strive to maintain the originality of the fabric prepared by people from the tribal community... we don't want to dilute the pattern... or, for that matter, the culture that the fabric presents. But some people (buyers) have this notion that anything that is dull is Dalit." How does she react to such comments? "Ultimately, we mean business. So I ignore the barbs and have included a variety of products that suits the taste of all," she says.         Biswas, who also heads the West Bengal chapter of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (DICCI), hails from a village called Bhaina in North 24 Parganas of the state. With Rs 1.5 crore from IFCI in February, she is in the process of setting up a digital printing factory for her second venture Coeval Crafts. She also helms Creatives Hands that markets Jharkhand crafts in Bengal. "I started selling handloom in my native village long back. All are equal there; there is no discrimination. It is the city that sometimes makes me conscious of my background but this has only forced me to do even better." Biswas indeed means business.  

