URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/services/education/acadgild-and-ilfs-skills-announce-partnership-to-train-two-lakh-students/articleshow/53767498.cms

Title : AcadGild and IL&FS Skills announce partnership to train two lakh students - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vinod Dham,National Skill Development Corporation,IL&FS Skills,IL&FS,Acadgild

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 11.57 AM IST

Document ID : 41

Content:
  MUMBAI: Technology education startup AcadGild, has entered into an exclusive, multi-year partnership with IL&FS; Skills Development Corporation (IL&FS; Skills) to offer technology and business-oriented courses to more than two lakh Indian students by 2019, with the aim of improving the employability of trainees. IL&FS; Skills is promoted by IL&FS; Education and Technology Services Limited (IL&FS; Education), the social infrastructure arm of IL&FS; Group, in partnership with National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC).     The partnership will enable IL&FS; Skills to expand beyond its current vocational and skill-based training programs, to such technologically advanced, professional courses as Android Developer, Big Data & Digital Marketing conducted by AcadGild which will now be offered at more than 100 IL&FS; centres across the country.     "Our focus at AcadGild is on addressing the severe shortage of employable professionals in the country. Prime Minister Modi himself has consistently highlighted the importance of skilling the young and growing population in the country in preparation for the transformational changes India and the world needs. The skill-gap in the country has reached crisis proportions and our partnership with IL&FS; Skills is aimed at addressing this," said Vinod Dham, CEO and Co-Founder, AcadGild in a release.     "This partnership with AcadGild will help us expand our offerings beyond school drop outs to graduates/engineering students and enable us to deliver high-quality technology and business courses conducted by expert mentors to a large number of youth across the country," said RCM Reddy, Managing Director and CEO IL&FS; Skills.     Vikalp Jain, President and Co-Founder, AcadGild added that the courses will be conducted using a hybrid approach wherein students will get access to physical labs and classrooms at of IL&FS; Skills' vocational training centres. AcadGild will deliver live sessions using their state-of-the-art platform. In addition to this, students will also get access to a local mentor at the IL&FS; Skills' centres.     IL&FS; Skills core focus areas are addressing the needs of the Industry and offering placement linked, market oriented, skills training programs to youth for a long-term and sustainable impact. IL&FS; Skills has impacted 1.5 million youth (6 lakh under placement linked skill development programmes and balance under skill upgradation) till date in various sectors in manufacturing, engineering, construction, services, health & IT/ITES.  

