URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//bse-launches-indias-first-carbon-efficient-live-index-called-greenex/articleshow/12038414.cms

Title : BSE launches India's first carbon-efficient live index called Greenex - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : IIM ahmedabad,Greenex,Green Index,Eco-friendly,BSE

Date :  Feb 26, 2012, 03.14 AM IST

Document ID : 427

Content:
      Climate change is one of the major present-day priorities. Business houses have begun to acknowledge the phenomenon. They are concerned about climate change, and the systemic and sector-specific risks associated with it.             Owing to the high levels of risk faced by countries such as India, the immediate need to shift to a low carbon growth path is clear. In turn, low carbon strategies can only be implemented if the emissions landscape across businesses and its effect on sustainable growth are clearly defined and understood.             In a new development, the BSE has launched the Green Index called Greenex. This is India's first carbon-efficient live index. The index has been developed by the BSE in collaboration with IIM Ahmedabad. It is the second thematic index launched by BSE. BSE Greenex will measure the performances of companies in terms of carbon emissions. The index will target socially-aware investors. There are many investors willing to pay a premium for green investments in companies to get better returns.             The new index will comprise 20 stocks based on a minimum carbon footprint, market capitalisation and turnover. The BSE Greenex will assess the energy efficiency of firms, based on energy and financial data.             The selection of companies was on the basis of greenhouse emissions in the last four financial years from 2007-08 till 2010-11 . The companies were tested in different combinations of carbon emission intensity, market capitalisation, and turnover. The index comprises 20 companies from the BSE 100. It gives equal weightage to both energy efficiency and profitability - together indicating a long-term sustainable strategy.             This is the first index based on actual performance on the energy efficiency front, rather than stated future plans. The index follows a sector-specific algorithm . Each company is measured only against the best in the same industry, based on disclosed energy and financial data. The index will have fair representation of firms from all sectors. It will include topranking companies from each sector.             According to the BSE, the BSE Greenex is the first step in creating a credible market-based response mechanism here, where both business houses and investors can rely on purely quantitative and objective performance-based signals to assess 'carbon performance'.             The index will meet the growing local and international demand to identify 'green investments' and companies with a strong social responsibility. The cost of carbon-based energy production is increasing. If companies become more efficient and reduce energy costs, there is a chance of higher profitability.             The index can be used to develop green financial products including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and structured products. Further, the index is expected to enable investors to take more informed investment decisions on companies in the energy-intensive sectors. It will help screen companies doing well on the carbon side, as the concerns of climate change is growing among stakeholders.             The index can be used by individual and institutional investors such as asset management companies, pension funds, and insurance companies looking for investments in companies with strong long-term prospects and develop green financial products.             According to the BSE, during the pilot runs, this index has performed better than the Sensex. This indicates that companies that can balance energy efficiency and profitability give better returns for investors.    

