URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/how-knr-is-above-the-rest-in-constuction-industry/articleshow/51935252.cms

Title : How KNR is above the rest  in constuction industry - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : KNR Constructions,India,earnings,CAGR,annuity

Date :  Apr 22, 2016, 05.29 AM IST

Document ID : 956

Content:
  ET INTELLIGENCE GROUP: At a time when construction companies are saddled with debt and struggling to stay profitable amid low demand, Hyderabad-based construction company KNR Constructions stands out due to timely execution of projects, healthy order book, and low net debt relative to equity.     The company has been cautious enough not to show unwarranted aggression while bidding for projects. This together with superior execution capability has helped in better working capital management. The company has a shorter working capital cycle of 108 days compared with 140-180 days for peers.     Its net debt-equity ratio has been a meagre 0.1. In the three years to FY15, the company's net revenues grew at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.7% to Rs 930 crore while its net profit grew at a CAGR of 11% to Rs 71 crore.     KNR Constructions has an order book of Rs 3,470 crore consisting of road and irrigation projects. This presents revenue visibility for 2-3 years. On the Build Operate Transfer (BOT) side, it has four road projects operational largely in southern states.     In the past few quarters, execution of some of the company's projects in the South was impacted due to Chennai floods, environment issues and availability of land. These issues have been largely resolved since the company has secured a large part of land in South. In the coming quarters, project execution is likely to gather pace. In the year-to-date period, National Highway Authority of India has awarded projects totalling length of 4,700 km.     It is expected that the pace of awarding projects may pick up. The government's budgetary allocation for road projects for FY17 is Rs 80,000 crore as against Rs 39,000 crore in FY16.     Analysts point out that KNR is expected to follow its cautious approach in bidding for hybrid projects. KNR is expected to secure a few hybrid annuity projects once aggression in bidding for these projects cools off. The company is also expected to secure a few irrigation projects in the new state of Telangana. On the valuation front, considering FY18 estimated earnings, the stock is available at a P/E of 10.3 compared with its three year average P/E of 21.  

