URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/recos/buy-knr-constructions-with-a-target-of-rs-595-over-1-5-2-years-gaurang-shah/articleshow/51682719.cms

Title : Buy KNR Constructions with a target of Rs 595 over 1.5-2 years: Gaurang Shah - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : real estate,KNR Constructions,infrastructure,Financial Services,finance

Date :  Apr 04, 2016, 03.41 PM IST

Document ID : 957

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Gaurang Shah, VP, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services, says from current levels moving downwards one can definitely initiate investing in a phased out manner    ET Now: KNR Constructions too is a stock that you like, what is the rationale behind this?   Gaurang Shah:  KNR Constructions is the latest company that we have added into our infrastructure, road, highways and expressways related coverage. Other than this, we have IRB Infra for a very long time. So KNR Construction is one of the largest and a leading players in the EPC segment that is engineering, procurement and construction business. Almost debt-free on the balance sheet and of course earnings visibility is tremendous, keeping in mind the kind of order book that we already have, added with the positivities of the focus that the finance minister has mentioned in his budget speech. Of course, the budgetary allocation for motorable and reachable roads for semi urban and rural India, could make this sector one of the biggest beneficiaries of the efforts that the government. We also believe that execution is not a problem as also working capital which otherwise for other companies in the similar segment has been a little bit of an issue. With their ability to complete projects in the stipulated timeframe, there is no cost overrun. So I believe that this is one of the best companies to play out the infrastructure, road and highways related theme if one wants to invest. Here also, one needs to have at least one and a half to two years kind of time horizon. With a conservative target of somewhere close to about Rs 595, we have initiated a coverage. The stock is trading at somewhere around Rs 515-520. So from current levels in a phased out manner moving downwards one can definitely initiate investing.    

