URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/how-mamata-banerjee-is-planning-for-opposition-mukt-west-bengal/articleshow/53779815.cms

Title : How Mamata Banerjee is planning for opposition-mukt West Bengal - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : West Bengal,Trinamool Congress,TMC,Polls,Narendra Modi,Murshidabad,Mamata Banerjee,Kolkata,CPM,congress-mukhth bharat,Amit Shah,Adhir Choudhury

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 06.28 AM IST

Document ID : 118

Content:
  Within three months of Mamata Banerjee emerging as the mightiest in West Bengal, the opposition space, although very little of it was left after the 2016 assembly elections, has shrunk further. And, the target, now, is to the make the 2018 civic election opposition-free.     With Didi's dictate, her party men have been poaching into the Congress and Left parties to an extent of having control over the districts, especially the ones that the ruling Trinamool Congress has failed to capture so far. While, Mamata is steadily eating up the opposition space in Bengal, she is indirectly supporting the BJP in making inroads into the vacuum created by the two principal opposition parties. In a way, she is contributing to Narendra Modi's Congress-Mukhth Bharat, as the growing influence of right wing politics in Bengal cannot be ignored any further. A change in political composition is imminent.     The Congress is already witnessing defection in its stronghold Murshidabad and Malda, while the party itself is a divided house over the fate of its leadership at the Public Accounts Committee in the state assembly. At the same time, according to psephologists, TMC's efforts to drive the system towards an opposition-free structure will change the state's Left-inclined politics.        "Despite a victory with an overwhelming majority, the ruling Trinamool Congress is continuously trying to dislodge the opposition parties. Mamata in several public declaration said they would make Bengal opposition-free. Meanwhile, her political opponents are in complete disarray following the electoral fiasco," said Amal Mukherjee, a political scientist and former principal of Presidency College.     But, trouble does not end there for the Left and the Congress. The BJP-RSS frontal and political organisations are fast spreading across the state, even as they aim to set up a base in North Bengal with Assam being the launch-pad and some help from Mamata's side. On the other hand, in what many consider as a political quid pro quo, the TMC is eyeing Northeastern states like Tripura and Manipur. In Tripura, the TMC already encroached upon the opposition space. Tacit BJP support in these states to ensure the rise of the TMC is not being overlooked either.     In a workers meet in Kolkata, BJP national president Amit Shah hinted about the party's East strategy.     "Time is ripe now. We have increased our vote share by two-and-half times than what we had in 2011 assembly elections. This is a favourable situation to build a base in the eastern states," he said. "We already have Assam, we did well in Bihar. And our target is Bengal. We cannot let Bengal go. This is the state where Jana Sangh was established."     According to election statistics, the BJP got around 56 lakh votes in total in the assembly polls, and in 90 seats the saffron brigade got more than 20,000 votes each. "The 2018 (civic) election is very important for us. At present, our fight will be to occupy the space of the principal opposition in Bengal," Shah said in the meeting.     Since the assembly elections, the BJP has expanded the number of party offices in the state by 250. According to Pratap Banerjee, state general secretary of the BJP, it now has 400 offices across Bengal and 11,897 members in Panchayats and Panchayat samities. The RSS runs 1,520 sakhas in the state and the organisation witnessed a two-fold expansion.     It also runs 322 schools in the state. RSS' proliferation in Bengal, and to this extent, was an alien idea a year ago. On the face of it, the BJP with three seats (on its own) is not exactly the embodiment of the so called rising star status accorded to it here in Bengal. But the party's growing significance, too, cannot be ignored.     Adding to that, if the Congress-CPM combine fails to consolidate, the BJP might take over the little space left for the opposition, said Mukherjee, the former principal. "The TMC cannot support the BJP openly because of its Muslim vote bank. At the same time, it does not want to side with the Congress, because, the Congress might be totally routed in the next Parliament elections. So, two choices are there for Mamata: a Federal Front or siding with the BJP. In case the Federal Front does not fructify, Mamata will be siding with the BJP. So, providing the BJP with an organisational and political support is an investment for her. On the other hand, with BJP's support, she can wipe out her born enemy, the CPM."     In the past month, two MLAs have shifted their allegiance to the TMC from the CPM-Congress combination. With this, the tally of the TMC in the state legislative assembly stands at 213. At least another half a dozen MLAs from the opposition camp are in the line to move to the government side, said a senior TMC leader. Senior Congress leader Manas Bhuniya has almost denied functioning under state president Adhir Choudhury.     Bhuniya is the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee in the Bengal assembly. The Congress is a divided house over the PAC. Bhuniya recently held a meeting with Mamata.     Congress' main concern is now Murshidabad and Malda, considered as a party fort in Bengal. Of the seven municipalities in Murshidabad, three have switched to the TMC while one is hung. The rest will also shift to the TMC in a month, said party general secretary Subhendu Adhikari.     The most important body in the district, zilla parishad, is also on the verge of collapse. The parishad's fast-changing composition is a telling pointer to Didi's steps in Murshidabad. The TMC, which had just one member in the zilla parishad a year ago, now has 29 as 10 members defected from the Congress and Left Front last week while others joined before the assembly elections. Even though the Congress is trying to cling on to its last bastion here, its strength has reduced to 23 from 42 due to continuous defection.     Similarly, the TMC is progressing in Malda, where panchayats are also drifting from the Congress to the TMC. Meanwhile, the CPM is at a loss in South Bengal as some of the CPM-run panchayats and municipalities in South and North 24 Parganas have switched allegiances.     "People do not want to be with others. Mamata Banerjee is both ruling party and opposition. She has that checks and balances inside the party structure," said Suvendu Adhikari, TMC's state general secretary and a minister. "So why do we need an unethical opposition? People from the Congress and CPM are joining us because they realised the Congress-CPM alliance has lost credibility forever."  

