URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/hc-admits-tata-capitals-winding-up-petition-to-recover-3i-infotech-dues/articleshow/53731263.cms

Title : HC admits Tata Capital’s winding-up petition to recover 3i Infotech dues - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tata Capital,Mumbai,infotech,India,Financial Services,Business,3i Infotech

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 02.52 AM IST

Document ID : 656

Content:
  MUMBAI: The Bombay High Court has admitted the winding-up petition filed by the Tata Capital Financial Services to recover dues worth about Rs 29 crore from 3i Infotech. The court has also restrained the company from disposing of its assets, except in the ordinary and usual course of business, without the leave of the court. But the software company has got four weeks to challenge the decision before the division bench of the court.     The Bombay High Court order said that Tata Capital took a permissible assignment of lease rental receivables of 3i Infotech from one Rentworks India Private Ltd. In March 2012, the IT firm requested its lender to restructure the lease rentals, saying that it was going through financial difficulties.     Subsequently, it defaulted on outstanding rentals and other payment obligations. Tata Capital had sent a statutory notice in October 2014 to recover the dues. Mumbai-based 3i Infotech went into corporate debt restructuring (CDR) around the same time as it failed to pay outstanding dues to several banks.      Another lender IDBI Bank had also filed an intervention petition, arguing that 3i Infotech had a liability of Rs 831 crore. IDBI Bank said to the court that 3i Infotech has a total debt of over Rs 2,500 crore, while the CDR scheme comprises only a few lenders and Rs 1,699.8 crore.     "The company has a debt burden of close to Rs 2,531.1 crore owed to various secured and unsecured creditors. This debt burden is sought to be further restructured by the DRS (debt realignment scheme) which involves IDBI and various other secured and unsecured lenders," said the court order passed by Justice GS Patel. "As a pre-condition to the DRS, it is proposed that there shall be a charge over the current assets of the company, which largely constitutes its cash flows." The court said that the company had been given enough time and opportunity to resolve the issue.     When contacted, Ashok Paranjpe, managing partner of MDP & Partners, a firm that is representing Tata Capital, confirmed the order, but refused to divulge further details . 3i Infotech CEO Paddy Iyer said, "We have referred the matter to our Attorneys for their advice, since we have not received a certified copy of the order. DRS proposal submitted to our lenders and FCCB holders has been formally approved by lenders and FCCB holders aggregating to Rs 2,442.36 crore out of the total debt of Rs 2,514.10 crore."  

