URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/earn/startup-jazzmyride-sells-car-and-bike-accessories-utilities-spares-via-web-store/articleshow/53570859.cms

Title : Startup Jazzmyride sells car and bike accessories, utilities, spares via web store - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : utilities,TVS ASL,Jazzmyride,ET Wealth,e-commerce,Cars,bikes,accessories

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 385

Content:
  Sixteen years ago, when Sunil Dhingra sold an item on Bazee.com (later acquired by ebay), he was very impressed. "The transaction happened very quickly and I realised the power of e-commerce when I was still in school," says Dhingra, 32. After completing his MBA from Symbiosis, Pune, Dhingra worked with various companies for about six years, and then decided to take the plunge into e-commerce. In April 2011, in partnership with his brother Mukesh, he founded Jazzmyride, a Web store for car and bike accessories. "After reading how Jeff Bezos built Amazon, I got enough inspiration to finally take the leap of faith," says Sunil.     Founded with an investment of Rs 10,000, which went into creating the portal, registering the company and stocking a few products, the startup (earlier known as Storeji) has since expanded its offering rapidly. Now it offers products across several categories— spare parts, tool kits, riding gear, and cleaning equipment, among other things—across 50-plus brands.     The startup has had it's share of problems, the biggest being managing supply chain and solving the problem of product discovery for customers. Over time, the startup's in-house analytics and technical systems have helped the company create an intelligent stocking model, helping smoother supply chain management. "The analytics helps predict what to stock, and what to procure on a just-in-time basis," says Sunil. The company has partnered with several domestic and international brands such as Steelbird Helmets, Waxpol, ABRO and Galio, and also offers its own private-label products. To improve product discovery, Jazzmyride has ploughed back its earnings into creating digital catalogues and product videos.     Sunil says that in a largely unorganised market of auto accessories, utilities and spares, Jazzmyride's model—a mix of e-tail and online-to-offline sales (O2O)—has found greater customer acceptance. "Finding spare parts and the do-it-yourself model is not common in the Indian market, so we follow a do-it-for-me model. This market required a unique approach and we have successfully provided that," says Sunil. The New Delhi-based company, which has a staff of 50, generated Rs 20 crore in revenue in 2015-16—a 100% year-on-year growth.     "We believe in a model inspired by lean companies such as WhatsApp. We automate a lot of everyday routine jobs using technology. Also, we never went down the 'discount-cheapest' model to bring in volumes. Focus on quality has paid," says Sunil, who was included by Asia Retail Congress among the 25 most talented ecommerce professionals in 2016.     In May, TVS ASL bought a stake in Jazzmyride. The funding hasn't been disclosed. "We decided to go for funding only after we had a proven business model in place, established cash flows, and accumulated profits," says Sunil. Jazzmyride is looking to expand operations with a focus on O2O business. "More than the funds, its the partnership with TVS that will help the company scale," says Sunil. The startup is in the process of implementing the O2O model in Delhi and Chennai.     "I am happy the way things are progressing," says Sunil. When he quit his job to start Jazzmyride, he received a message from a friend saying: It's great to see you quit the biggest addiction in life—salary. "I often kick myself that why I didn't quit the habit earlier," he says.  

