URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/Seville-from-its-foot-tapping-flamenco-to-mosaic-clad-plazas/articleshow/53788737.cms

Title : Seville, from its foot-tapping flamenco to mosaic-clad plazas - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Seville,romans,Renaissance,jamón serrano,Barrio Santa Cruz,Andalusian cowboys

Date : Aug 21, 2016, 10.35 AM IST

Document ID : 969

Content:
  By Neeta Lal     If cities had personalities, Seville would be a drama queen. Drama manifests everywhere in Spain's fourth largest city — in its feisty, foot-stomping flamenco, its controversial yet hypnotic toro (bullfighting), even in the Andalusian cowboys who roam millennia-old plazas in their wide-brimmed boleros.      ( A flamenco performance)    Founded by the Romans and then ruled by the Moors, the Andalucian capital came under Spanish rule in the 13th century. Years of external domination and cultural intermingling have resulted in a diversity that has today become Seville's imprimatur, its inclusiveness shining through in its warm embrace of visitors. The city's architecture too is a nod to eclecticism.      ( A 14th century aristocratic house in the downtown area)    A jumble of Christian-Moorish buildings peppers Seville's landscape, along with Renaissance and baroque structures, tiled pathways, stunning gardens and mosaic-clad plazas.     Bougainvillea-swathed houses, ochre palaces and picture-book taverns in warren-like alleyways add to its allure. Glistening orange trees, their rotund fruits weighing down boughs, are everywhere, their fragrant blossoms perfuming the city's air.     The quicksilver Guadalquivir river shimmies through the city's heart, its west bank home to the bohemian Triana neighbourhood where sailors, bullfighters, flamenco artists and ceramicists coexist as if in a culture crucible.     In the 15th and 16th centuries, the river provided the city with the most important Spanish port for the New World. Flamenco, the artful interplay of voyeurism and performance, is not just an dance form.     It is a religion in Seville. Its energy fans out everywhere — from volunteers handing out glossy flyers of upcoming performances to tapas bars anointing their panels with images of oomphy dancers, and stores inundated with flamenco dresses, fans, castanets.    Flamenco has one foot in India   Flamenco was apparently the invention of gypsies who originated in India and descended on Spanish villages and towns circa 1425, bringing with them their exciting, seductive music and dance with strong Indian connections.     "To sing or dance flamenco, you require passion rather than discipline and intensity rather than technique," says pretty Maria, a volunteer at Casa de la Memoria, a cultural centre where we are booked for a 90-minute performance by award-winning artists.      ( The Metropol Parasol in the old quarter of Seville is believed to be the world's largest wooden structure)    "Flamenco is all about dancing in a proud and upright way," Maria goes on. "For women, the back is often stiff and bent backwards. There's scant movement of hips, the body is held upright and the arms extend like a ballet dancer's. In fact, many flamenco practitioners often train in ballet as well."     The performance, expectedly, blows our minds. Its disparate elements — cante (singing), toque (guitar playing), baile (dance), jaleo (vocalisations), palmas (handclapping), pitos (finger snapping) and throaty, amorous singing — coalesce to explode on stage like a primal force sucking us into a vortex of passion.    The arch of history   Seville's panoply of attractions offers rich pickings for the camera. Its most iconic landmark — the Cathedral, also the world's largest Gothic church — is a crowd-pleaser. Occupying the site of the great Aljama mosque that was built in the late 12th century by the Moors, it also has the grave of Christopher Columbus, the great explorer who died in poverty in Valladolid.     The basilica's 343-ft-high bell tower Giralda is today Seville's symbol. "The cathedral's construction lasted over a century, from 1401 to 1506," our affable guide Alessandro informs us.     "It is said that when the plans were drawn up, church elders said, 'Let us build a church so beautiful and so magnificent that those who see it will think we are mad.'" Madness is indeed what best characterises Seville.      ( Door of the Conception, the north facade of the Seville Cathedral)    And navigating it, we feel buoyed by its brazen energy. The Alcazar, the royal palace showcasing mudejar, an architectural hybrid of Moorish and Christian styles popular between the 12th and the 16th centuries, is another example of the city's architecture.     The building, constructed by the Arabs, became a royal residence and is replete with rich Moorish, Gothic, baroque and Renaissance details. A series of ornate rooms showcases intricately carved wooden ceilings, Moorishstyle tiling and flower-filled gardens. Seville's fascinating cultural tapestry is twinned with modernity and cosmopolitanism as well.     Every square inch of the city is bespattered with spiffy art galleries, malls, theme parks, cinemas, theatres and clubs. Buzzy terraces, inns and bars entice with posh nosh.     Yet, there's a downside too to this compact and beautiful city — traffic-gridlocked streets and a surfeit of petty crime. A fraught financial climate has resulted in high unemployment and a notorious crime rate.     Stories abound of pockets being picked, bags being snatched or tourists (especially seniors) being fleeced. A breakdown in law and order is perhaps Seville's biggest cross to bear today.     Be that as it may, there's charm aplenty. One evening we amble to the city's most scenic part, Barrio Santa Cruz, with its labyrinthine lanes, medieval houses and an erstwhile Jewish quarter. Not very far nestles the city's newest attraction — Parasol Metropol — a mushroom-shaped structure designed by the German architect Jurgen Mayer-Hermann.     The controversial structure was completed in 2011 amid much brouhaha over its design, location, delays and cost overrun. Yet, it is today Seville's biggest cachet, showcasing an archaeological museum, bars, restaurants and a balcony.     We nip up for a quick view but stay for an hour till the golden orb fuses into an amber horizon. As alluring as the retail options in Seville are, the choices in Parasol's neighbourhood, Regina Market, are hard to beat.     We comb through a trove of interesting wares — farm produce, Andalusian artisanal products, manchego cheese, olive oil and bitter orange marmalade, fair-trade clothing, organic wool, sweaters — to pick up some bargains.    Tapas on tap   Spanish food pushes all the right buttons of seasonality and tradition. Seville's easy access to fresh seafood, meats, legumes, fresh fruits and vegetables and an endless supply of fabulous hams means that it's impossible to eat badly here.     Dinner is rarely a structured, one-venue affair. Like the temperamental Spanish, the meal resists compartmentalisation. It can stretch all the way across town and until well past midnight.     For atmospherics, many popular eateries display immense haunches of Serrano ham from their ceilings, a sight not for the pusillanimous. We dine one night at such an outpost on pinchito kebabs and manchego cheese, washing it all down with cold glasses of Cruzcampo beer.      ( Tapas is believed to be a Seville invention, with over 4,000 bars offering them)    Tapas is believed to be a Seville invention, with over 4,000 bars offering these tasty snacks crafted from authentic and local produce — grilled lamb, cured meats, salted cod, sheep's and goat's cheese, piquillo peppers and fresh anchovies.     We also try tapeo, a languorous ramble around tapas bars. The feast is not just movable, it is endless. We begin with a smorgasbord of mussel canapes and garlic brandade, a divine eggy tortilla and a deconstructed patatas bravas.     The second round of gluttony sees us hoovering up veal stew and blanca butifarra (white sausage with chickpeas). Salmorejo, a gazpacho avatar, we find, habit-forming. Made from tomato and bread and the holy trinity of oil, garlic and vinegar, it delights with its jamon serrano (ham) and hardboiled egg topping. Our culinary explorations turn out to be instructive too.     For instance, we learn that beneath the patina of tradition, Spanish cuisine is undergoing a tectonic shift. Younger chefs are rejigging things to incorporate cross-cultural influences — Japanese, Korean, American — to cater to a discerning global clientele. The end result? Food and recipes that are evolving and resonating among a wider audience.     La merienda or the afternoon tea is a charming Seville tradition. It sees people flooding streets and squares in the evening to enjoy their sangrilas/coffees with munchies.     Sweetmeats bought from monasteries are also becoming popular. Apparently, with rosary sales plummeting, many of the city's monasteries are diversifying into making confectionery with centuries-old recipes. The products, literally, sell like hot cakes. The Yemas de San Leandro in downtown Seville, we are told, uses recipes from the 15th century and, by afternoon, all its shelves are cleaned out.     Eating at famed gelaterias, sipping latenight sangrias, admiring the Guadalquivir, swaying to the beats of a castanet — Seville knows how to captivate hearts with its rich immersive experiences. Ironically, they are also the reason why it is so tough to bid adios to this mesmerising metropolis.    ( The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist & photographer) 

