URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/time-right-for-allowing-repos-in-corporate-bonds-bhaskar-panda-hdfc/articleshow/53769827.cms

Title : Time right for allowing repos in corporate bonds: Bhaskar Panda, HDFC - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : yield,Women,US,State Bank Of India,So,portfolio,opinion,mean,markets,Market,Inflation,India,in,Food,et now,ET,Credit Rating,Core inflation,Business,bonds,Bhaskar Panda,Balance Sheet

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 03.02 PM IST

Document ID : 473

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Mythili Bhusnurmath, Consulting Editor and Bhaskar Panda, HDFC, discuss macro cues and SBI merger and whatit means. Edited excerpts       ET Now: What is your assessment of this mega merger and what does it really mean for SBI which is either ways a behemoth but its position only get stronger from here now?         Mythili Bhusnurmath:    Yes, but I will have to strike a slightly discordant note in this and a slightly odd one out over here because I think this is a merger which has been driven more by the politics of it, the government's desire really to see one large Indian bank amongst the top 50 banks because it is not really justified or warranted either by the economics or commercial considerations. If you look at how SBI has merged with its earlier two associates banks in 2008 - the State Bank of Saurashtra and then in 2010, the State Bank of Indore and after that there was completely no move whatsoever from the State Bank to merge the other associate banks.     Now. I think the government was very keen on having this image of India's one large bank in the top 50 banks and that seems to be a bigger driving force because if you look at it, there is also a contradiction because on the one hand we say we want more competition, we want more banks, we are giving more bank licences, more universal bank licences and the belief that more the merrier and on the other hand we want mergers. So, I think there is some kind of contradiction at the macro level also. I always sound the odd one out but there does not seem to be any clear justification on purely economic or commercial stance.     Of course, there will be some rationalisation of cost. There will be some synergies because they are all part of this larger SBI group. I do not anticipate the kind of problems we had when we saw earlier two public sector banks merging. There is a difference of culture. Those kind of issues may be even with the unions will not be there. So those issues will be likely less in the case of SBI's merger with its associates. But in the case of the Bharatiya Mahila Bank, this clearly is a case of having floated a bank purely from a electoral point of view because you wanted to kind of project the image of being pro-women before the last elections and so you floated a bank essentially meant only for women though I do not see how gender really comes into banking. It is a purely gender neutral kind of business. So there are pluses and minuses but to my mind I am not so sure that the politics of it did not really dominate the economics and the commercial considerations in this particular case.     Overall, I think it would not really hurt either the associate banks or State Bank of India either way. SBI was already very large, an elephant and may be it becomes more of an elephant so that is about the only difference that I can think of.        ET Now: Wanted your quick assessment on what is really happening with the bond market? Is this correction here to stay or this is just an aberration and the price trends are likely to move higher again?         Bhaskar Panda:    Let us go back to the CPI numbers. In July, CPI numbers were higher and that was higher than the projections as well as higher than the comfort level of RBI. That was followed by WPI numbers that was again higher and we all know that it is because of food price inflation and the core inflation has been higher. So, this is what is happening in a fundamental basis in the bond market today.     If you look at it technically, it has fallen from say 7.54%, (I am talking about the yield of 10-year bond), to touch a low of 7.08% from where it has started reviving. Technically, if you look at it, it should go towards 7.18% and probably if that breaks, it can go higher but the mood in the market or the mood with the participants is that it may not sustain beyond a point of time and then you will see a lot more pressure coming on the 10-year yields. However, if you look at the fundamental side, this is my personal opinion. I do not feel that it should go much lower than what we have seen in the very recent past. Therefore my opinion is that it should remain between say 7.08 on the low side and 7.20 on the high side or may be a little higher than that.    Mythili Bhusnurmath  : What is driving the demand for government bonds? I know markets have recovered a little bit and they have come up because after falling to a low of 7.08, they have now moved up a little bit in terms of yields. But who is buying because as far as I know, FPIs have largely exhausted their limit of G-Sec. So where is the interest coming from? Is it from domestic buyers, pension funds, banks and is it because banks' demand is going up because credit is not picking up, where is the demand really coming from?    Bhaskar Panda  : This is mostly from the banks if I know correctly. So it is mostly from the banks and probably then some others... but mostly it is from banks. Obviously, you have mentioned State Bank of India, I do not know the numbers but as I know it is mostly from the bank, demand is coming from the banks.    Mythili Bhusnurmath  : And if I can shift now from government securities to the corporate bond market, we have just seen the expert committee set up by a number of regulators giving its recommendations and the RBI governor had also talked about making some announcements about the corporate bond market on August 25th. Which of these recommendations -- he talked about bond index, about incentivising corporates to move to corporate bonds -- rather than cash credit. They have also talked about widening the ambit of investors, increasing the limit for FPIs, credit rating agencies. There are some suggestions. Which of these suggestions to your mind would be the most important in driving the corporate bond market forward?    Bhaskar Panda:  I think in the corporate bond market, if you look at it, it has been saddled with few very corporates coming into the market and issuing the bonds. That was one of the issues which should be addressed in the recommendations. Second, the government earlier had been issuing a lot of bonds. Most of the banks' resources was going to buy government bonds other than corporate banks. Third, the loan portfolio for the corporates was much higher than the bond portfolio on the bank's balance sheet side. So if all these things change, then probably there will be a vibrant corporate bond market and it will deepen further and then there will be more corporates coming out to issue bonds. The last thing which I feel is that if there is single borrower limit on the bank's side which when we are taking exposure on the corporates, so if corporate bond does not form part of single borrower limit, probably that might help banks increase their portfolio in the corporate bond market. That might be a better idea to float at this point of time.    Mythili Bhusnurmath  : As far as allowing repos with the RBI against corporate bonds is concerned, I remember since there was an instance with Harshad Mehta case where there were lots of issues about whether repo should be allowed in anything other than government securities, is this the right time to move towards repos in corporate bonds or are there risks associated with it?    Bhaskar Panda  : Risks will always remain. I mean if you are doing something, you are definitely taking this but I think time is right for moving towards that. We have electronic medium through which all the... I mean you talked about Harshad Mehta time, a lot of things have changed after that. So I think risks are there but if RBI wants to move, I think it is a good time. I mean any time is a good time, why not now.  

