URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/ites/vodafone-renews-outsourcing-deal-with-ibm/articleshow/53625409.cms

Title : Vodafone renews outsourcing deal with IBM - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro,Vodafone India,Tech Mahindra,Tata Consultancy Services,outsourcing contract,IBM

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 02.41 AM IST

Document ID : 148

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Vodafone India has renewed its technology outsourcing contract with IBM for five years. Rivals such as Tech Mahindra, Wipro, Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys were also in the fray for a deal that analysts say is worth $750-850 mn (Rs 5,025-5,695 crore).     Under the contract, IBM will help Vodafone in virtualisation of its operations, and enable it to migrate to the hybrid cloud architecture, while helping the telecom operator consolidate its data centres across the country, the two companies said in a statement Tuesday.     Compared with the first contract signed in 2007, which was centred on laying out of traditional infrastructure and application services, the new deal focuses heavily on automation, cloud and analytics, which will help the country's second largest telco in digital transformation of operations and enhancing customer experience.     Vodafone India's director of technology & network, Vishant Vora, said IBM will help the telco in enhancing customer experience with intuitive capabilities and build a cost optimised, flexible and scalable IT infrastructure."We are a technology driven organisation and introducing the latest advances is key to delivering the best of experiences to our customers."     The 2007 deal was worth $600 million and for five years, but was later extended for three years. Similar to that, the new deal too has options for extensions and additions of contracts for IBM's Softlayer and Bluemix platforms among others, according to Greyhound chief analyst Sanchit Vir Gogia. The additional contracts could increase the contract value to $1 billion by 2023, he added.     IBM India and Vodafone refused to comment on financial terms. "IBM's capabilities will help strengthen Vodafone's vision of delivering differentiated client experiences," Vanitha Narayanan, MD of IBM India, said. DD Mishra, research director at Gartner, said the deal renewal indicates that the partnership between the two organisations is more strategic in nature.     "Large deals combining application and infrastructure services are less of a trend now unless there are larger transformational objectives associated with it," he said.     IBM has been strengthening its digital portfolioThis deal is a significant renewal in the Asia Pacific market.., looking at the size and volume of business. "Further to this, we see, IBM has reorganised internally which is expected to enable IBM to bring decision-making much closer to the customer," Mishra said.     For IBM, a 2004 contract with Bharti Airtel was a landmark deal in terms of size and was also the first IT outsourcing order from India's telecom sector.  

