URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/brick-and-mortar-business-houses-hiring-more-differently-abled-people/articleshow/53679780.cms

Title : Brick-and-mortar business houses hiring more differently-abled people - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tata Sons,RPG Group,Godrej,Differently-abled

Date :  Aug 13, 2016, 05.59 AM IST

Document ID : 667

Content:
  Tata Sons has more than 4,000 employees who are differently-abled.     Their needs are different and the group that employs more than 6.6 lakh people across its 100-plus companies wants to ensure that they are looked after well, even as it aims to also expand this special pool of talent.     Changes in building structures to make the workplace more accessible, making parking lots closer to the buildings and lifts and workstations that suit the disabled are among the proposals that India's oldest conglomerate is working on.     There may also be job profiles that suit them better.     "We are embarking on the next aspect of diversity that involves working closely with the differently-abled. We are currently researching the area to understand the varying needs which will form the basis for our next steps," said Chief Human Resource Officer NS Rajan.     While the exact plans are yet to be chalked out, sources said the diversity councils of the group companies will get more members to figure out how to attract the "specially abled" and ensure an enabling work environment for them.     While it is already a practice among multinationals, IT and other new-age firms to look at the differently-abled as a necessary talent pool, most brick-and-mortar conglomerates are opening up to the idea of diversity now.     The percentage of differently-abled among total employees is less than 1% at many conglomerates, but several are in the process of improving on that. Godrej and the RPG Group are among old business houses that are working on steps to make workplaces more disabled-friendly.     "In today's talent market, if you have an environment which attracts all kinds of people, you create an employer brand that people genuinely want to join because of the ecosystem," said Sumit Mitra, head of group human resources and corporate services at Godrej Industries.     The Godrej group is in the planning stage to make some alterations as well. This may include upgrading of its regional offices and factories where the differently-abled can be absorbed.     The RPG Group has seen its IT firm Zensar Technologies providing parking lots in front of lifts as well as specially designed washrooms and wheelchairs for the differentlyabled.     It is also talking to specialist organisations to take their advice on the matter. "We are still focused on Gender Diversity predominantly. However, we recognise that we do need to move to the next frontier of diversity initiatives.     Providing an inclusive and friendly work environment for the differently-abled is intuitively the correct thing for us to do as a group," said S Venkatesh, president of group HR. Specialists say the old business houses are changing but there are still some questions in their minds.     "They want to know how to sensitise the rest of the workforce better, what if roles mapped out for the specially abled are not correct and how well can all employees work with changing diversity," said Ameesha Prabhu, chief executive of TRRAIN, a company that skills and provides employment opportunities for the differently-abled.  

