URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/ten-stocks-in-focus-on-friday-19-august-2016/articleshow/53764935.cms

Title : Ten stocks in focus on Friday, 19 August 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro,Tata Consultancy Services,State Bank Of India,Shipping Corporation of,RIL,Reliance Industries,NHPC,Natural gas,Fortis Healthcare,Apollo Tyres

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 08.04 AM IST

Document ID : 785

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Friday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "Technically, the markets remain in an overall uptrend with the short-term rally facing considerable resistance around the 8,700-8,800 levels," Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha told ETMarkets.com.     "Wave theory indicates that the current market trend maybe in the third leg, which has a higher bottom of 8,600 levels on daily charts. A break above the 8,750 levels could take the markets to the 9,000 levels," he added.    Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   SBI & Associate Banks:  State bank of India, the country's largest lender, on Thursday approved the merger of its operations with five of its associate banks.    TCS:  Tata Consultancy Services said it was extending its contract with US airline JetBlue and will expand its innovation centre in Pune to support the airline's digital initiatives.    Wipro:  India's third largest software services provider Wipro has invested $1.5 million to acquire minority stake in Tel Aviv based cyber security platform provider Insights Cyber Intelligence Limited.    RIL:  The Government has slapped an additional penalty of $380 million (around Rs. 2,500 crore) on Reliance Industries and its partners for producing less than targeted natural gas from eastern offshore KG-D6 fields.    RBL:  The private sector lender RBL (erstwhile Ratnakar Bank) will hit the primary market with an initial public offering (IPO) on Friday. The IPO, will raise up to Rs 1,216 crore by selling 5.4 crore shares at the upper end of the Rs 224-225 price band.    SCI: Shipping Corporation of India's net profit dived 72.56 per cent to Rs 55.91 crore for the quarter ended on June 30, 2016, compared to the same period last year.    Fortis Healthcare:  The company is expected to announce demerger details of SRL Diagnostics into a separate entity on August 19.    NHPC:  The State-owned firm will start commercial operations from the 40-MW unit beginning Friday. The power generated from the unit will be supplied to West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co.    Apollo Tyres:  Apollo Tyres has initiated talks with two-wheeler manufacturers in India to supply tyres as part of its plans to expand business in the new segment where it is currently present only in after sales market.    Dilip Buildcon:  Infrastructure firm Dilip Buildcon said it has bagged Rs 2,016 crore road project in Uttar Pradesh.  

