URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/twelve-stocks-in-focus-on-tuesday-21-june-2016/articleshow/52844467.cms

Title : Twelve stocks in focus on Tuesday, 21 June 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zydus,Yes Bank,Suzlon Energy,Rolta India,Rolta,RIL,Reliance Industries,Reliance communications,Nestle India,Nestle,Eros International Media,Cadila Healthcare,Apollo Hospitals

Date :  Jun 21, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 939

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Tuesday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The daily candles indicate an engulfing bull candle which could indicate a bullish reversal, this is pending confirmation though and we would require further cues to initiate a buy based on this signal," Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha told ETMarkets.com.     "Technically the markets remain in a medium term uptrend whereas the short term remains susceptible to global pressures, we would advise caution and advocate staying in cash at this juncture," he added.    Here is a list of top twelve stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   RIL: Reliance Industries, along with Indian Institute of Petroleum (IIP) at Dehradun, has developed a technology which restricts benzene content in the gasoline pool to address the health and environmental concerns, the Mukesh Ambani-led company said on Monday.    Yes Bank Ltd: Y  es Bank has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help the lender raise as much as $1 billion through a so-called qualified institutional placement (QIP) offer, according to two people aware of the development, said a media report.    Mahanagar Gas IPO:  Country's second largest CNG retailer Mahanagar Gas has mopped up Rs 309 crore from anchor investors, a day ahead of its initial share sale.    Suzlon Energy:  Hong Kong based CLP Group has forayed into the Indian solar energy market by acquiring 49% stake in Suzlon Energy's 100 mw project in Telangana, the two companies said in a joint statement Monday.    Eros International:  Eros International Media said it will acquire 50 per cent stake in Puja Entertainment and Films but did not disclose the amount involved in the deal.    Reliance Communication:  Merger talks between Reliance Communications (RCom) and Aircel will be extended by a couple of weeks, as both parties are thrashing out the final contours of the deal with their bankers, said a media report.    Apollo Hospitals:  Apollo Hospitals Group and Hainan Ecological Smart City Group (HESCG), a Chinese infrastructure company on Monday signed an MoU to jointly develop an integrated modern health care services facility and systems in Hainan province, said a media report.    Tata Motors:  United Kingdom's likely exit from the European Union (EU) may affect adversely operations at Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), which contributes almost 90 per cent to profits of auto major Tata Motors.    Cadila Healthcare: Zydus Healthcare, a subsidiary of Cadila Healthcare, said it has acquired two abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) from Teva Pharmaceutical in the US for an undisclosed sum.    Nestle India:  Nestle India is embarking on a product offensive, launching up to 25 products across various categories to fend off 'disruptive competition' from new rivals like Patanjali.    Rolta India:  S&P; Global Ratings has lowered the long-term corporate credit rating of Rolta India to default (D) from selective default (SD) due to missed interest payment.    NIIT:  A global leader in skills and talent development, on Monday announced the launch of their first interactive live, online course in Digital Marketing.    

