URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/why-you-shouldnt-get-lured-by-regular-dividends-of-balanced-funds/articleshow/53681952.cms

Title : Why you shouldn't get lured by regular dividends of balanced funds - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : mutual funds,invest,ET Wealth,Dividend,balanced funds

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 363

Content:
  Over the past year, equity oriented balanced funds have become popular among investors. They have caught the fancy of first time equity investors looking to cushion the impact of market volatility while benefiting from upsides. Some balanced funds have even managed to outperform pure equity funds over 3 and 5 year periods despite having lower exposure (65-75%) to equities. By offering the best of both worlds—equity and debt—these funds can play a vital role in an investor's portfolio. But while experts agree balanced funds are a good vehicle to tide over volatility, they are not convinced about the recent trend of regular dividend payouts from such funds.    Dividend play   Over the year, there has been a shift in the frequency of dividend payouts from such funds. Balanced funds that were earlier offering annual dividend payouts have changed tack and are now offering monthly and quarterly payouts. For instance, HDFC Prudence has been paying a monthly dividend since January. Its sister fund, HDFC Balanced, has been paying dividend every quarter since June last year. ICICI Prudential Balanced has been paying out monthly dividends since last year. SBI Magnum Balanced has been paying a quarterly dividend since 2013. Tata Balanced offers investors the option of monthly or annual payout. ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage, which also taps arbitrage opportunities and hedging strategies, offers all three options—annual, quarterly and monthly.      Suddenly, equity-oriented balanced funds are being pushed as a source of regular dividend income for investors. These dividends are tax-free in the hands of investors regardless of the quantum, making them tax efficient. After a year, capital gains are also tax free for equity-oriented balanced funds.     However, do investors really benefit? Financial experts are not enthused about the regular dividend option. It is being seen as an unhealthy practice of garnering AUM by mutual funds. "Balanced funds are not geared for regular dividend payouts," argues Manoj Nagpal, CEO, Outlook Asia Capital. "The dividend is paid out from the distributable surplus accumulated over the years, irrespective of the market situation."     Vidya Bala, Head, Mutual Fund Research, FundsIndia, says, "The only way such funds can afford to pay regular dividends is if they have sufficient accumulated surplus. Most balanced funds have a healthy long-term track record which allows them to offer this option." Recent market conditions have also been conducive for funds to up the dividend play.       One particular scheme has been showcasing its consistent dividend paying track record over the past few months to attract investor attention. The scheme has paid out 1% dividend every month. But investors should not take this as norm and expect payouts to continue. "The fund is under no obligation to continue paying dividends," says Amol Joshi, Founder, PlanRupee Investment Services. "If there is a sustained market decline, chances of dividend payout and quantum of dividend will be lower."    Better alternative   For investors, a regular dividend payout is akin to a systematic withdrawal plan. But while a SWP can be customised to yield a fixed sum at desired intervals, a dividend payout is at the discretion of the fund house and subject to market conditions and internal policy. Investors need to realise that the dividend they receive from mutual funds is not an extra return but their capital being paid back to them. The NAV of the fund reduces to the extent of the dividend paid out.      Experts say investors should opt for the growth plan and initiate SWPs after a year if they want a regular inflow rather choosing the dividend option. Investors stand to lose out on the power of compounding by opting for the dividend payout plan.     "It doesn't make sense to opt for a sub-optimal dividend payout plan when the idea is to benefit from a high potential wealth building avenue like equity-oriented balanced fund," says Bala. Joshi agrees. "A dividend payout strategy is not advisable for long term wealth creation. It is better instead to opt for growth plan in the accumulation phase," he says.  

