URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/will-jio-launch-turn-reliance-industries-into-a-buy-stock/articleshow/53683689.cms

Title : Will Jio launch turn Reliance Industries' into a 'buy' stock? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sensex,Reliance Jio,Reliance Industries,mutual funds,equity funds,Equity,Ecommerce,Birla Sunlife Frontline Equity

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 354

Content:
  Reliance Industries has been grossly underperforming the broader market for several years. While the Sensex is 34% higher from its 2008 peak, Reliance is down 38%. The underperformance is clearly visible in its absolute returns for past three and five year holding periods as well.     Since Reliance is an index heavyweight, its massive under-performance has pulled down the Sensex as well. If Reliance had risen as much as the index—34%—and assuming that other stocks' performance wasn't impacted by this, the Sensex value would have been at 29,155 and not 27,775—an gain of 1,380 points.     What should investors do? "It is time to buy Reliance," says Deven Choksey, Managing Director, KR Choksey Securities. Vinay Khattar, Senior VP and Head, Research, Edelweiss Research agrees: "A huge amount of capital expenditure over past 6-7 years will start bearing fruits now and, once the market realises this, the stock will rise." Most analysts share their view: Of the 42 analysts that track Reliance, only one has a sell recommendation.     Being a diversified company, Reliance warrants a segment-wise analysis. Petrochemicals and refining continue to be its backbone, and the petrochemical division reported good numbers for the first quarter of 2015-16. Due to a strong improvement in gross refining margins (GRM), Reliance's refining segment also reported strong numbers. Since the company is very high on its refining strength, its GRM will remain better than the industry average and also the benchmark Singapore GRM. In fact, by reporting more than double the GRM of the benchmark, Reliance actually surpassed market expectations.     The market's entire focus now is on the commercial launch of Reliance's telecom business, Reliance Jio. This is because the company's capital expenditure on this business stands at close to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. "We are positive on Jio's launch, as it is happening after extensive tests," says Choksey. Reliance has extended its trial services to all LYF mobile phone users and its test user base has swelled to 15 lakh. Though the company has not officially announced a launch date, it may happen on 15 August with some 'Freedom Plan' offers. Experts feel that Reliance Jio will report operational profits in the first year itself. "Though PAT (profit after tax) may take time, Reliance Jio should report profit at EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) level in its initial years," says Khattar.           Though Reliance's organised retail division is doing fine, growth has been slow due to disruption from e-commerce companies. The company is planning to take on this challenge by launching its own e-commerce platforms. "Reliance's e-commerce platform may be ready by Diwali," says Choksey. This platforms will leverage the existing infrastructure of Reliance Retail and Reliance Jio and will provide customers access to both online and offline stores.     Upstream oil and gas assets have been a drag on Reliance for many years. With production coming down both in domestic and foreign assets, the first quarter of 2015-16 was not any different. However, this is unlikely to impact the counter as these negatives have been priced in.     Should you buy now or wait till the launch of Reliance Jio? Experts feel that this is the best time to buy as the price is depressed on account of uncertainty. The valuation has come down to reasonable levels. Also, besides a successful Reliance Jio launch, there are other possible triggers for the counter. "Reliance will be an interesting bet going forward. While its petrochemical and refining will continue to generate cash, the capex requirement by retail and telecom will come down. Its free cash flow will become positive in the coming years and this should get reflected in the market," says Khattar.     As explained earlier, any reversal in Reliance's fortune will impact the overall market as well. And considering Reliance's current weight in the index, a 10% jump can easily pull up the Sensex by 190 points.    Technical view   The Reliance counter is still going through long-term consolidation from its 2007 peak. When will this end? "Since the price range now has become narrow—between Rs 900 and Rs 1,100—breakout may happen soon—maybe in couple of months," says Birendra Kumar Singh, Technical Analyst at Systematix Shares and Stocks. If the break-out happens as expected, the price rise will be significant, as it will be happening after a long phase of consolidation. "Probability of an upside break-out is high and, if that happens, the immediate target will be Rs 1,500 (may happen in 8-12 months from after break-out)," says Singh. So investors can accumulate this counter with a stop-loss at the bottom end of the current range of Rs 900.    Mutual funds not overly bullish on Reliance  Though fund managers are picking up Reliance shares on hopes of a revival, funds hold barely 3% of RIL's equity.    Mutual funds' holdings in Reliance, which hit a five-year low of 1.87% two years ago, have started improving. Now funds hold around 3% of the company. This means the bullishness of the analysts is shared by fund managers as well. Birla Sunlife Frontline Equity and HDFC Top 200 leads when it comes to buying Reliance. Birla Sunlife holds 52.92 lakh shares worth Rs 500 crore, constituting a little over 4% of its assets under management (AUM), while HDFC Top 200 holds 47.91 lakh shares valued at Rs 486.2 crore and constituting 3.7% of its AUM. Among the top holders, HDFC Balanced Fund added 1.5 lakh shares during the month of July itself.     Among the schemes that have added Reliance last month, DSP Blackrock Opportunities Fund leads the pack adding 2.03 lakh shares, worth Rs 20.7 crore. DSP Blackrock Tax Saver Fund also added 67,850 shares in July.        

