URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/healthcare/biotech/pharmaceuticals/4-ranbaxy-execs-quit-as-sun-pharma-wraps-up-rejig/articleshow/53781954.cms

Title : 4 Ranbaxy execs quit as Sun Pharma wraps up rejig - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sun Pharma,Ranbaxy Laboratories,Ranbaxy,Novartis,mumbai sun pharma,india sun pharma,Dilip Shanghvi

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 10.57 AM IST

Document ID : 8

Content:
  MUMBAI: Sun Pharma seems to have completed the last leg of its massive manpower restructuring post its $3.2-billion acquisition of Ranbaxy Laboratories, with four senior executives exiting the company over the last two months. With the latest round, the entire top rung of erstwhile Ranbaxy —vice-presidents and above — has quit over a span of nearly two years. The restructuring is said to have impacted as many as 3,000 people across several levels and functions.     In this round, Alexander Gebauer, president-R&D; Subodh Deshmukh, senior VP-R&D; (formulations); Vijayaraghavan B, VP (intellectual property and patents); and Poonam Bharti, director-HR, have left the company. When contacted, a Sun Pharma spokesperson declined to comment.     Ranbaxy's total headcount was 14,000, with a top-heavy structure at the time of the acquisition, which posed a big challenge to the integration process. No data is available on the number of executives who have resigned or were asked to leave.     Also, the issue of salary parity emerged as the average remuneration of Ranbaxy executives ranked senior manager and above was 15-40% higher than the corresponding positions at Sun Pharma. Over a period, Sun Pharma executed three to four rounds of manpower rationalization, starting from the topmost level of president, percolating to vice-presidents and directors.     In March last year, Sun Pharma MD Dilip Shanghvi had told TOI the company will "use and nurture the talent" of Ranbaxy, and "is not considering any job cuts".     Gebauer, formerly the R&D; chief of German specialty research firm Merz Pharma, had joined Ranbaxy in July 2014, while Vijayaraghavan was an old Ranbaxy hand. Subodh Deshmukh, who had joined Ranbaxy as senior VP-R&D; in 2013, has quit and joined Novartis as head, global development, India. Sun Pharma recently appointed Pradeep Sanghvi from Apotex as executive VP-R&D.;     With Bharti's exit, the entire HR team of erstwhile Ranbaxy has quit. Sun Pharma also exited certain Ranbaxy's "low-margin" overseas geographies, and many senior executives lost jobs as a result of the restructuring. The rejig may have involved 150-odd senior executives, and has flattened roles in R&D; and certain manufacturing facilities. Sun Pharma completed the $3.2-billion acquisition of Ranbaxy on 24th April 2015, nearly a year after announcing the deal.  

