URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/marketing-branding/branding/solving-the-puzzle-vinay-sanghi-discusses-the-evolution-of-cartrade/articleshow/53784664.cms

Title : Solving the puzzle: Vinay Sanghi discusses the evolution of 'CarTrade' - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.15 AM IST

Document ID : 750

Content:
Circa 2010: Vinay Sanghi decided to solve a 'jigsaw puzzle.'  "There are around ten brands and thousands of dealers," recalls the founder of online auto classified portal CarTrade. Buying and selling cars online was an alien concept. Reason: Lack of awareness, absence of trust and highly fragmented nature of the market which was dominated by neighbourhood car dealers. Cut to 2016. Sanghi seems to have cracked the puzzle.  Within six years of launching, CarTrade has over 32 million consumer visits per month, lists over 225,000 used cars for sale, and works with over 10,000 new and used car dealers and auctions over 250,000 vehicles to the wholesale market every year, claims Sanghi. The fourth-largest funded startup this year-with `950 crore raised in 2016-it counts Warburg Pincus, JP Morgan, Temasek and Epiphany ventures among its top investors, and has raised an overall funding of `1,200 crore so far.  "While funding has put us in the limelight, it gives me satisfaction that we are on the right track with our business proposition," says 47 year old Sanghi, who comes from a family of car dealers and led Mahindra First Choice, the multi-brand, pre-owned cars business of the Mahindra Group, for over a decade years before taking the entrepreneurial plunge.  The Mumbai based auto classified portal, which competes with the likes of Cardekho, Droom and Truebil, is now foraying into car servicing and finance businesses. The idea, says Sanghi, is to open up multiple revenue streams. With the funds raised, the brand can focus on integrating innovative products and services, he says, adding that he will opt for a mix of organic and inorganic growth. "The target is to grow continuously," says Sanghi who bought the rival CarWale last year.   It gives me satisfaction that we are on the right track with our business proposition: Vinay Sanghi (Image: BCCL)  Sanghi contends that the market for car financing business is huge. Less than 10% of used cars sold have access to organised finance. And as far as car maintenance is concerned, he says the opportunity is massive in spite of its highly fragmented nature. There are nearly 50,000 service stations, small and big workshops across the country. "We can connect our customers to them," he says.  Auto experts believe that Sanghi is making a tactical move. Entering into financing and servicing is a logical extension of what CarTrade has been doing, says Abdul Majeed, auto expert and partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers India. "If one is able to provide holistic end-to-end services, then one stands to gain immensely," he adds.  Every year India has been adding over 2.5 million used cars on the road. The market size has grown significantly over the last few years. The factors driving the used-car market: Huge replacement demand, improved distribution network and wide acceptance among people. "The transition from 'second-hand' car to 'used-car' tells the story," says Majeed. Certainly buying a used vehicle has less of a stigma attached to it these days. Moreover, people have started changing their cars frequently. While earlier it used to take 7-8 years, it has come down to three years, he contends. And if one adds the limitations of the traditional dealer network who failed to innovate and connect with consumers, one clearly sees why online players have managed to capture the imagination of the consumers, he adds.  But why did the car manufacturers fail to capitalise on the demand? After all didn't they have first-mover advantage with their used car divisions? Majeed reckons the key lies in focus. For car manufacturers, this segment happened by default, a secondary business. The prime focus was selling new vehicles. But for online players, it's the bread and butter.  "CarTrade has the potential to become a one-stop-shop for all kinds of car buyers," says Majeed. But he sounds a word of caution as well. It needs to be very careful about the future verticals it might plan to enter. "One at a time and few at a time must be the mantra," he says. Another challenge is to make the business model profitable. It's all very well to get funding but the investors are increasingly keen on ROI.  Sanghi is aware of the challenges. He contends that CarTrade will scale up the business by three to four times over the next three years. "The company expects to earn revenue of up to $400 million per year in the next four years," he claims.  Is he concerned about funding slowdown in the startup ecosystem? Sanghi doesn't sound bothered. There are enough investors for good companies, he says. Having been in the market for more than half-a-decade and in spite of competition, we learnt early that a sustainable business model is about establishing 'stickiness' with consumer demands, he adds. "You either have all that she needs, scale up if you don't, or be ready to be taken out," he signs off.  

