URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/mf-news/mutual-fund-queries-answered-by-s-shankar-cfp-credo-capital/articleshow/51686417.cms

Title : Mutual Fund queries answered by S. Shankar, CFP, Credo Capital - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : spread,SIP,investments,invest,Inflation

Date :  Apr 04, 2016, 08.06 PM IST

Document ID : 894

Content:
  1) I want start SIP of Rs. 1,000/- p.m. in 3 Mutual Fund under Small & Mid Cap category. My holding period is 12 years with plan to review the performance of fund in every 3 years. Can you please suggest 3 funds. I would like aggressive Fund as my holding period is long term.-----Amit Shah     Would suggest Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip & Franklin Prima among midcap funds and DSP Microcap for small cap fund. Please be aware that mid and small cap funds are more volatile compared to large cap funds, and they do appear overvalued compared to large caps. Please review once every three years. Since the sector itself is aggressive by nature i have selected funds which have done well over last 10 & 5 years.     2) I had invested 20000 each in may_2012 in birla sunlife dividend yield growth fund and Tata dividend yield growth fund what I have to do should I continue in these funds or redeem or switch to other fund pl advise --- A.K.gandhi     Both are Multicap funds, Tata Dividend Yield has done reasonably well and may be held on, Birla Dividend Yield plus has not done well and could be switched to Birla Frontline Equity if you are fine with large cap funds.     3. I have been Investing in MFs through SIPs of Rs 25K per month in the last 2 years. My current corpus is 6.5 lakhs fairly spread across 5 funds - Axis long term equity, ICICI value discovery, Mirae emerging Businesses, Franklin taxshield and Franklin high growth companies. I intend to increase my monthly SIP gradually to 1lakh rs per month. Should I increase allocation to same funds or expand my portfolio? My time horizon is 10 to 15 years. --- Maruthy     Keep up the good work, your fund selection is good, most of the funds are multicaps with one midcap. Since you plan to increase the SIP to a sizeable amount would suggest having exposure to large cap oriented funds too like Birla Frontline Equity or ICICI Dynamic.     4) I am 46 and would like to plan for my retirement. Post retirement, I am looking at an annual income of INR 1800000 of today's value (have not calculated the future value). I am capable of taking medium to high risks. My questions are: What should my Corpus be at the time of retirement?, what is the recommended SIP value for each month for the next 10-12 years to build the corpus? , which SIPs should I invest?     Retirement planning is a complex and comprehensive exercise and would need more inputs. It is best done by a Certified Financial Planner or Regd Investment Advisor (RIA) would suggest you approach an RIA in your city. However as an academic exercise here are the numbers, assumptions made are 1. You dont have any corpus as of date 2. You would retire at 60 3. Inflation expectation of 6% 4. You would be able to get 7% post tax return on your retirement corpus and 15% p.a return on your SIP investments till retirement. 5. Your life expectancy would be 85 years.     Approximately Rs 8.5 Cr would be required. You would need to invest Rs 1.5 Lacs per month from now till retirement at 60 ( 14 years) . 3 SIPs of Rs 50,000 in 1. Birla Front line Equity 2. Franklin Prima Plus 3. SBI Magnum Global, the three funds are large cap, multi cap and midcap respectively. Since the return required is high at 15%, investment suggestions are in high risk equity funds and suggesting any bond fund becomes tough, the same would be possible if you were to increase the SIP amount to reduce the risk of having all equity funds in your portfolio and also the risk of a major market correction exactly in the year of your retirement, normally it is advisable to move to safer assets couple of years before it is required.  

