URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/market-projected-to-surge-40-in-18-months-5-ideas-to-ride-the-wave/articleshow/52532408.cms

Title : Market projected to surge 40% in 18 months; 5 ideas to ride the wave - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wealth,technology,Take Solutions,real estate,New Delhi,Market,Mahindra Holidays,Info Edge,Centrum,Business,Bharat Electronics

Date :  Jun 01, 2016, 11.13 AM IST

Document ID : 947

Content:
  NEW DELHI: As investors drive the equity market higher on hope of economic revival and a good monsoon outcome, experts are seeing encouraging signs that the next bull run has begun in the domestic market.     "The next 10 years will be extremely exciting for equity investors compared with the last 10. Are we going to see a repeat of 2006-2007? I do not know. But every bull run is usually much bigger than the last one," said Raamdeo Agrawal, Joint MD, MOFSL.     "There will be some irrationality, but my sense is that we are in for one good bounce in the market in the next one to three years. The probability of a downside is very limited and the possibility of a good bump of 30-40 per cent over the next one-and-a-half years is good," he said.    Based on the recommendations from various brokerages, we have compiled a list five wealth creating ideas that investors can look at from a one to three-year perspective:   SRF (PE: 20.82 | PB: 3.87):  "It is a unique business model consisting of three businesses; chemicals, films and textiles. With these three models what we believe is that the company is focussing into the fluorine chemical business more of because the higher margins, less of competition and innovative product segments," said Siddharth Sedani, Assistant VP - Advisory, Sharekhan.     Sedani believes that company's foray into pharma with the acquisition of DuPont, its cash-accretive textiles business and the expansion of its Dahej chemicals factory will hold the company in good stead.     "We expect around 600-700 basis points (bps) expansion in terms of return ratios along with an improvement in free cash flow to Rs 500 crore every year. Looking at all the financials and other parameters, SRF looks quite interesting with a long-term perspective," he added.    Bharat Electronics (PE: 21 | PB: 1.17):  "It is purely a defence play. If you look at the results for Q4 of FY16, the company has posted 10 per cent revenue growth along with margin expansion of 400 bps to 31 per cent which was quite commendable," said Siddharth Sedani, Assistant VP - Advisory, Sharekhan.     The company's order book jumped 48 per cent while its order book in FY16 alone tripled as government initiated moves to allow private players in the defence sector.     "We like the story as a pure defence because of its manufacturing capability, R&D; base, the cost curtailing systems which they have along with that the other parts. Bharat Electronics has staked up very well," Sedani said.    Take Solutions (PE: 111.68 | PB: 3.9):  "It is focusing on the life sciences vertical with a strong growth of about 58 per cent (YOY) and the company has recently acquired Ecron Acunova, which is also helping it to grow further," said Jagannadham Thunuguntla, HoR, Karvy Stock Broking.     For Thunuguntla, once Take Solutions introduces its own products and technology through new acquisitions, the margins are likely to expand from current 10 per cent to 12-13 per cent.     "Once the company is able to introduce its own products and technology into the new acquired company the margins can be expected to move 12-13 per cent higher which should help overall margin expansion. But, even with this new acquisition consolidated margins at around 20-21 per cent is still quite healthy," he added.    Mahindra Holidays & Resorts (PE: 31.3 | PB: 5.01):  "The company has positioned itself well in the vacations and resort space. It has about 2,880 inventory at this moment and 400 to 500 newer rooms, with this existing inventory and the future inventory in pipeline, it is set up for good growth," said Jagannadham Thunuguntla - HoR, Karvy Stock Broking.     The recent acquisition of Holiday Club resorts in Finland will provide the company entry into the European market with the Club already having a 50,000-strong member base. This Jagannadham Thunuguntla believes is a good acquisition for the future growth of the company.     "The company has a strong promoter with good pedigree. Its EBITDA margin is upwards of 18-20% and RoEs in the range of 15 per cent. All set together, it is set to be a good time for Mahindra Holidays & Resorts," he said.    Info Edge (PE: 67.47 | PB: 6.47):  "The core recruitment business continues to grow at a healthy pace, with steady margin expansion as it remains a cash cow for the company. Reducing competitive intensity in the real estate vertical is a positive as seen in lower A&P;, while tapering growth remains a challenge," said brokerage firm Centrum Broking.     The brokerage firm believes the breakeven in Zomato is huge positive for the company and sees little need for additional fund raising.     "We value the company on sum-of-parts (SoTP) basis, with core recruitment business valued at Rs 618, 99acres.com at Rs71 and Zomato at Rs 169 (30% discount deal value), while other investments at Rs 20 and cash at Rs 112. Risk reward is highly favourable given the strong guidance for Zomato and healthy growth in the core recruitment business," it added.  

