URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/busting-startup-mantras-dropping-out-of-school-is-not-always-cool-says-blippar-founder-ambarish-mitra/articleshow/53502373.cms

Title : Busting startup mantras: Dropping out of school is not always cool, says Blippar founder Ambarish Mitra - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : startup,silicon valley,Narayana Murthy,IITians,Ambarish Mitra

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 05.13 AM IST

Document ID : 312

Content:
  Ambarish Mitra could easily be the poster-boy for Danny Boyle's next, provided he calls the sequel Slumdog Billionaire. For the uninitiated: Mitra grew up in Dhanbad, Jharkhand. At 14, following a family feud, he ran from his hometown and started living in a slum located in the southwest of New Delhi. Fate and a newspaper ad for an "E-business" competition turned things around for our man in the year 1997. With the money he won from the competition ($10,000) he started an internet portal for women (womeninfoline.com) and took it public with an IPO later.     Soon after, he moved to the UK for higher studies, and eventually founded Blippar, an augmented reality app, in 2011. With offices across six countries in the world (the USA, the UK, Japan, Turkey, India, Singapore), Blippar has worked with several marquee brands from Unilever and P&G; to Coca-Cola and L'Oreal. Despite reports around its user-retention rate issues, it has managed to get the unicorn title and emerge as one of the most-funded tech startups in the UK.     We caught up with Mitra on the sidelines of Cannes Lions 2016 to ask if Blippar confirms to the norms of the startup world with respect to founder's age, education background, startup headquarters; or does it refute those norms as plain myths.    Myth 1: Dropping out of school is (always) cool  Thanks to the likes of Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and Mukesh Ambani (closer home), dropping out of college remains the longest-running fad among the techies. In fact, hotshot VC and ex-PayPal founder Peter Thiel, encourages tech aspirants to drop out and chase their dreams and he'll fund them (should he find merit in them, of course). Dropping out has been the 'it' thing for decades now. And yet, Mitra went to London School of Economics to finish his higher studies. So, does he not buy the dropout and drive-on argument? "Technically, I'm a dropout as well since I didn't finish schooling. I went to LSE because of this deep-rooted Indian mindset of getting a degree. I had 22% attendance at college, I was running startups while at college. I joined LSE before my next (business) idea came to me. I didn't care about failing the exams," he tells us. So, does that make him pro or anti dropping-out-of -school? "Well, I believe you need to have clarity on what you want to achieve. Some of it can come from going through an education system. Ultimately, it's all down to your individual experiences in life. Some people get that experience academically, some in the difficulties they face in life."    Myth2: Younger the better  The GenZ of startups in India are largely founded by entrepreneurs under the age of 30. Globally, as well as in India, you hear of whiz kids creating apps after school hours. And yet, however tight-lipped, a small section of investors does feel safer betting money on seasoned entrepreneurs instead. "Age genuinely is a number," Mitra says. "I have people working at Blippar whose work ex exceeds mine by 20 years. Experience can be condensed to knowledge very easily. If you spend three months with someone who's worked for 30, you can condense and bring that onboard. That's why important leaders, political and otherwise, work on the advice of smart people around them. You are as good as your hiring. You still have to make executive decisions, but based on the information available to you." Mitra says that if you're a young enterprise, you should surround yourself with grey hair instead of tom-tomming about how young your team is. At Blippar, he has never had a fully young crew. His chief revenue officer is a former Bank of America CEO. He couldn't afford him during the early days of Blippar, so he inspired him to join the startup. "He brought perspective that's helped me immensely. That perspective has turned to normal practice now so people think it's a part of me, but it wasn't until I learnt it from him."    Myth3: Geography matters  The Indian startup scene has rapidly moved to Bengaluru making it India's Silicon Valley. Beyond factors like cost of infrastructure and living, how significant is geography in determining startup hubs? "Geography doesn't matter, heroes do," says Mitra. A lot of geographies are actually heritage sites, he feels. That explains why majority of classical musicians are from Austria, and most Renaissance artists from Florence. When you create heritage, people follow. If Narayana Murthy had started Infosys in Patna, who's to say that wouldn't have emerged as the Silicon Valley of India? Let's not forget Bihar produces one of the largest batch of IITians in India. "People like Murthy made Bengaluru their home. They created a centre of excellence there. Five people moved on from that company to start something else in the same city. That's how hubs are created. That's how certain cities (London, Berlin) have created first and second generation networks, and Silicon Valley is in its fourth generation of networks now."    Myth4: Women in Startups = #Fail  Women in startups is a topic close to Mitra's heart, he admits. One isn't surprised given his first-ever business venture centered around women empowerment through tech. Contradicting what popular startup-themed shows suggest, Mitra says there's been more change in the landscape of women entrepreneurship in the last three years than in the last 20. "Governments are pushing for it, we have more women heroes now, and their case studies are attracting other women to take chances. Additionally, startups are striving to create an environment that encourages more women to work and get trained to run their own businesses at some point. I think from washing machines to microwave ovens, tech has done more for gender parity than government policies. And it is continuing to do so."    Notorious Nativeland  Talk about usual growth challenges and every market will have them. But the kind of challenges that thwart Mitra in his own native land - India - beat the obstacles he faces in all other markets combined. "And I am still a citizen of India. If I suffer, I can only imagine what would happen to others." India is not a homogenous market, Mitra is quick to realise. It's more diverse than the entire Europe, he feels. "I always knew this theoretically but it's only at work I learnt that you have to have a Mumbai strategy, a Delhi strategy, a Kolkata strategy. The market is very price conscious. Scale is more important than excitement. Only if something has really taken off in major countries will it finally take off in India." That said, Mitra believes the Indian consumer is one of the smartest and fastest adopters of new tech whereas the business community is one of the last adopters of the same. "Quite unfortunate for users to be represented by people who say Indians are not ready. Indian gatekeepers are not doing justice to the gate by putting unnecessary toll charges," he surmises.  

