URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/going-forward-inflation-likely-to-be-near-6-dr-rupa-rege-nitsure/articleshow/53738600.cms

Title : Going forward, inflation likely to be near 6%: Dr Rupa Rege Nitsure - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,stocks,So,risk,Retail,reserve bank of india,people,new,Mythili Bhusnurmath,money market,monetary policy,markets,Market,liquidity,labour market,L&T,Inflation,India,in,IIP,Food,et now,ET,Economic survey,Core inflation,Brexit,bonds

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.05 PM IST

Document ID : 632

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Mythili Bhusnurmath, Consulting Editor, and Dr Rupa Rege Nitsure, Chief Economist, L&T; Financial Services discuss macro cuesand how with FCNR (B) redemptions and the pickup in post harvest credit demand, there will be transient stresses in liquidity going forward. Edited excerpts        ET Now: We have a trend building as far as inflation goes and the broad expectation on the street is that this is going to be inching higher for a couple of more months than the festive season demand would come in and you would see food prices also easing once additional supply hits the market. In the interim, there would be a bit of a flux. IIP came in at a seven month high. So, manufacturing activity is also picking up. How do you tie these two scenarios?         Mythili Bhusnurmath:    The WPI data that came in, was close to a two-year high as was the CPI. What is interesting to note is that the difference between the WPI and the CPI which actually had reached an all time high a couple of months ago, is now narrowing. So, it is little easier for any policy authority to read something into those trends. But, mind you, all this happens despite the fact that the WPI data at least not strictly comparable with CPI for the simple reason that the base is far older, it is 2004-2005. The waiting pattern is also quite different.     In fact, the media economic survey and the review also had spoken about the need to do something to make the WPI more representative. Of course the fact that the RBI at least officially does not look at the WPI as much as it did before or almost not at all. So, to that extent, one can disregard the WPI except that it does show a slightly worrisome trend and contrary to what many commentators are saying, actually inflation is going to come down because both in WPI as well as CPI, the driver is really food inflation. I am not really sure because if you look at the latest numbers particularly in WPI, the drivers has been really fruits and vegetables and of course pulses. Now, these are things that are not immediately impacted by a better monsoon. A better monsoon impacts cereal output and on cereals we have really seen that kind of pressure. So, I am not so sure that lends confidence to the belief that yes it is a seasonal thing. Definitely prices will come down. So I am a little bit more sceptical.     I think there will be an upward pressure particularly after the Pay Commission hikes. I think we will see that inflationary pressure if not as intense as now, it will not abate significantly. So, the new governor and the MPEC will have to take a call on whether one wanted to have a slightly more "relaxed view" about the inflation target? Do you want to target that light path 5% number or do you want to look at its 4% plus minus 2% in which case even if inflation were over 5%, does it or does it not call for any monetary action?     Mythili Bhusnurmath:  How do you think one needs to look at the inflation numbers? Should one get very worked up if the numbers is likely to be in excess of 5% or should one look at it in a more relaxed frame of 4% plus/minus 2% in which case even if it is closer to 6%, maybe it does not call for any action? Mind you, we are also talking about the recent IMF paper which says that RBI is unlikely to reach its target and it also talks about the difficulties of monetary transmission in developing countries clearly pouring cold water in the entire RBI thesis that monetary transmission should be near perfect.    Dr Rupa Rege Nitsure  : No I agree with you. I feel that so far as fruits and vegetables inflation is concerned, we do see seasonality in them because they are perishables and supply is getting destroyed during the monsoon season. So post monsoon, it improves.     Secondly, this year, the area sown under pulses has improved significantly. Year on year, growth is more than 33-34%. So far as pulses supplies are concerned, definitely post monsoon we will have better stocks. But having said that, the major worry for me is core inflation because again in the month of July we had seen core inflation firming up and the government is quite committed to implement GST. If that happens, then services inflation is going to have an upside bias. So, overall, CPI will have an upside bias - a) because of revival of rural demand and b) because of pay commission and direct application or effect of payment of house rate allowance but there will be indirect impact also of that which Dr Rajan has also spelt out in the monetary policy review.     Also India suffers from a lot of structural impediments. So whenever growth picks up, we always see demand for raw materials and capital goods picking up and that also starts pulling up inflation. So I think going forward, the most realistic expectation for inflation will be near 6% rather than between that acceptable range of 2% to 4%. I entirely agree with the findings of IMF working papers, transmission is going to remain very tough because we have seen after the first quarter results, banks' NPL position has worsened and credit costs have grown. So, it is not possible for banks to pass on the fall in policy rates to MCLR based lending rates.     To that, there will be additions of risk premia and borrower specific spreads, etc. So effective borrowing cost from the credit segment is not going to come down. Also, we have seen that because of post Brexit rally in fixed income markets, there was a significant fall in bond yields and money market rates especially CP rates and all. But now people are saying that also will peter out. Going forward with FCNR (B) redemptions and the pickup in post harvest credit demand, there will be transient stresses in liquidity going forward. So interest rates will also have upside bias in the second half that is my take on it.    Mythili Bhusnurmath  : Accepting you argument that inflation is likely to be closer to 6% than to RBI's glide path of 5%, how should the MPC interpret it as a call for action or should there be no action at all? We are assuming that the MPC will not call for a rate hike which it would perhaps under the earlier dispensation but would the MPC read it as a case for status quo or a case for a cut which is what many people have been urging assuming that inflation is closer to 6%?    Dr Rupa Rege Nitsure  : I cannot say what MPC would do but I would expect them not to have a rate action because the point is that except for improving the feel good factor what impact it is going to have on borrowing cost? It is not going to materially change lending rates. So it will only improve the feel good factor.     On the other hand, the shift from liquidity deficit situation to neutral liquidity situation definitely has helped productive sectors because it has at least brought the borrowing cost from financial markets. If you look at the sectoral deployment of credit or the kind of sectors that are borrowing from financial markets, it is not the broader manufacturing sector, there are very few sectors raising funds, either finance companies or banks or telecom companies or electricity because of UDAY bonds and these things. The demand is not coming from the broader manufacturing sector and when capacity utilisation rates are so low where is the incentive for manufacturing sector to come for project finance related funds which are primarily used for expanding or adding or modernising the existing capacities.    Mythili Bhusnurmath:  Absolutely. I think the realisation about the liquidity being a major factor holding back transmission that realisation came a little late in the day for the Reserve Bank of India. But now if one can shift our attention overseas, what kind of a review of the minutes of the Fed Reserve meeting in July, what kind of a statement, what kind of minutes if you could juxtapose it with what the Fed's action has been, what kind of minutes do you expect to see because there have been calls from stray members of the FOMC that now is the time before December there is a case for a rate hike, perhaps not till the elections but after November do you see the chances of any rate hike from the US?    Dr Rupa Rege Nitsure:  Personally, I see very limited chances because US data is still quite mixed and even though you see in recent times we have seen labour market related data consistently improving, data on other fronts like consumer confidence, retail sales etc, it is still showing a mixed picture. Also, uncertainty related to Brexit is also lingering. What I feel is that they are playing this game, they want this fear to stay alive so that markets do not become very complacent but when they come closer to taking action, they are always postponing it. And I have not seen any material change in the data situation so for me, they will keep saying like this, keep the fear alive but actually not raise rates in this current calendar year.  

