URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/banking/finance/banking/associate-banks-merger-will-help-us-break-into-top-50-league-sbi/articleshow/53786437.cms

Title : Associate banks merger will help us break into top 50 league: SBI - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,State Bank of Travancore,State Bank of Patiala,State Bank of Mysore,state bank of hyderabad bmb,State Bank Of Bikaner and Jaipur,Speed,Shares,new,Mysore,mumbai state bank of india,Mumbai,market share,Market,Jaipur,India,in,hyderabad,bmb & ldquo,BMB,bharatiya mahila bank sbi,Bharatiya Mahila Bank,Bank

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 05.46 PM IST

Document ID : 768

Content:
  MUMBAI: State Bank of India's (SBI) merger of its five associate banks and Bharatiya Mahila Bank (BMB) with itself will catapult the public sector behemoth into the top 50 banks globally and make it four times the size of its immediate rival in India, the bank said in an emailed statement.     The six bank merger with SBI will add Rs 8 lakh crore to the bank's assets swelling its network to 24,000 branches pushing up total assets by 36% to Rs 30 lakh crore.     On August 18, SBI's board approved the merger of five associate banks, namely, State Bank of Travancore, State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, State Bank of Hyderabad, State Bank of Patiala and also the three year old Bharatiya Mahila Bank.     SBI will give 28 shares for every 10 shares held of State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur and 22 each for every 10 shares held in State Bank of Mysore. Shareholders in State Bank of Travancore will also receive 22 SBI shares for every 10 held. State Bank of Hyderabad, BMB and State Bank of Patiala are not listed.     SBI will give 4.42 crore shares with face value of Re. 1 for every 100 crore equity shares of BMB.     "The mergers will allow the bank to leverage operational synergies, reach out to new clients and improve market share by ensuring a better reach through enlarged presence," SBI said in a statement adding that customers of associate banks will also reap the benefits of the merger through improved services and borrowing costs.     SBI will not need to put in additional capital on account of the merger because such needs will be met through increase in efficiencies and economies of scale.    "The reduction in overheads, administrative offices and centralisation of treasury will in itself lead to substantial reduction in operating costs. Post the mergers, the Bank will re-deploy manpower in customer facing roles with a sharper marketing focus. The same is expected to create a superior customer experience," SBI said.     "The speed of credit delivery, particularly large credit approvals, will improve as instead of seven sanctions by seven banks, the customer will have to deal with a single credit approval process. Likewise, resolution measures in respect of stressed assets will be quicker and decisive as the decision making will be centralised," the bank said.  

