URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/housing-com-appoints-vivek-jain-as-chief-product-and-technology-officer/articleshow/53739628.cms

Title : Housing.com appoints Vivek Jain as chief product and technology officer - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vivek Jain,technology,real estate,product,Jason Kothari,Housing.com,Google,appointment,Amazon

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 08.47 AM IST

Document ID : 725

Content:
  BENGALURU: Real estate platform Housing.com today announced the appointment of Vivek Jain as chief product and technology officer, in a company statement. Jain will focus on strengthening the product and engineering aspects of the business to help steer the company towards its goal of becoming a full-service transaction player.     Jain has over 14 years of experience in the technology and digital domains in India and the US. He started his career with Texas-based startup Ashley Laurent. Within three months, he was promoted to be the deputy director/India country head and the company was later acquired by Cisco. Following this, he joined Motorola Mobility, a division of Google, where he managed relationships with carriers in several developed and emerging markets.     At Amazon Jain was the bandwidth product / business head for the cloud division (Amazon Web Services) where he helped define the value proposition, differentiation strategy, pricing and feature roadmap to create a sustainable competitive advantage for the company.     He returned to India in 2014 to join Jio (subsidiary of Reliance Industries) as vice president where he was part of the chairman's leadership team and was charged with building the company's digital media business and the core leadership team.     Following that and prior to joining Housing.com, he was the CEO of CA Media Digital (owned by The Chernin Group and private equity firm KKR) where his focus was to grow the company's digital service portfolio and various consumer facing businesses in new media.     Commenting on the appointment, Jason Kothari, chief executive officer, Housing.com said, "Our goal is to become the most trusted and the leading end-to-end real estate transaction platform in the country, and robust product and technology innovation will be important for us to achieve that. Vivek comes with best-in-class product and technology leadership experience, global exposure and an entrepreneurial mind-set, which is a unique mix, and one that blends seamlessly with the thinking and culture at Housing.com. I believe Vivek's addition to our senior team will greatly benefit us in realising our vision for the company."     "As technology continues to play an increasingly important role in our day-to-day lives, Housing.com has managed to bring the benefits of technology to the real-estate segment through path-breaking product innovations. As the company gears up for the next phase of growth and transformation, product and engineering will define the contours of success, and with an immensely talented team, I believe Housing.com is well-poised to fulfil the potential." said Jain.     Founded in 2012, Housing.com has 1.7 million verified homes listed to date. The company has raised over $100 million in capital from Softbank, Nexus Ventures, Falcon Edge, Helion Ventures, Nirvana Ventures, Qualcomm, DST founder Yuri Milner, Viacom 18 co-founder Haresh Chawla, Snapdeal founders Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal, among others.  

