URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/money/accel-partners-eyes-500-million-for-fifth-india-fund/articleshow/53778529.cms

Title : Accel Partners eyes $500 million for fifth India fund - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : walmart,venture capital,Sequoia,KPMG,fund,Flipkart,Accel Partners

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 06.16 AM IST

Document ID : 735

Content:
  BENGALURU: Accel Partners, one of the country's most active venture capital firms, is preparing to tap investors for a new fund for India, joining peers who have all aggressively raised money in an environment where caution is the watchword.     Accel India, which is based in Bengaluru, is expected to raise $400-500 million (Rs 2,700-3,300 crore) for its fifth fund, according to four people who are aware of the plans. It will formally begin the process by October although it has initiated talks with the Limited Partners who could invest in the fund, two of them said.     "They have started to gather interest already and will start raising the fund in October," one of the sources said.        The talks come barely 18 months after the Silicon Valley-headquartered firm raised its fourth India fund of $305 million. Typically, Accel raises a new fund every three to four years.     While the perception is that startups are generally finding it difficult to raise money, the reality is that growth capital is more difficult to come by while earlystage investments are flourishing. Several marquee venture capital firms have raised money this year, aiming to no doubt participate in the rush for early-stage deals but more importantly to reserve capital for portfolio companies that require follow-on funding.     Accel, which also aggressively invested last year across dozens of seed-stage companies, is reserving a significant part of the proposed fund for follow-on deals.     "They will probably keep higher reserves now given how the market is," said one of the people quoted above.    NO FINAL DECISION ON CORPUS   The firm is likely to raise $400 million, but has not made a final decision on the corpus yet which could go higher.     If Accel raises $500 million, it will take its existing assets under management to over $1billion. This would make it one of top three venture funds in terms of assets under management for India, coming after Sequoia Capital India (close to $3 billion) and Nexus Venture Partners ($1billion).     "For the latest fund, Accel will look to raise a much larger corpus than what it did with the last fund — while most of it will be deployed for early-stage investments, they are also looking to line up some funds for big late-stage bets," said one of the people mentioned above, who is directly familiar with the talks.     All sources requested anonymity as the discussions are confidential and they are not authorised to speak to media. Accel did not immediately respond to emails and text messages sent by ET on Thursday.    QUICK PROCESS   For India affiliates of VC firms such as Accel, which has also backed companies like Facebook and Jet.com (recently acquired by Walmart for $3 billion) in Silicon Valley, fund-raising is typically a quick process with high demand from investors which include university endowments, pension funds and family offices.     In India, Accel is known for its $1-million investment in 2009 in Flipkart, a company now valued at $15 billion. The VC firm has made a partial exit from this investment, and several of its other early bets such as events ticketing platform BookMyShow, Bluestone and Software as a Service (SaaS) player Freshdesk have seen significant jump in valuations.     Last year, Accel India also expanded its partnership by elevating Anand Daniel and Dinesh Katiyar. Other partners include Mahendran Balachandran, Shekhar Kirani, Prashanth Prakash and Subrata Mitra.     The increased corpus signals Accel's aggressive intent on doubling down on early-stage venture investments, at a time funding has moderated after reaching a record high in 2015.     The value of venture deals fell to $583 million in the second quarter of 2016 from a high of $2.3 billion in the same period last year, according to an industry report by consultancy KPMG International and deal tracker CB Insights.  

