URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/select-midcaps-smallcaps-generated-up-to-30-return-amid-brexit-blues/articleshow/53043652.cms

Title : Select midcaps, smallcaps generated up to 30% return amid Brexit blues - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tree House Education,smallcap and midcap,Shilpa Medicare,Sensex,New Delhi,Motilal Oswal,McLeod Russel,Jubilant FoodWorks,Jaiprakash Associates,Gujarat NRE Coke,global markets,equities,earnings,Brexit

Date :  Jul 04, 2016, 02.33 PM IST

Document ID : 910

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Investors of select smallcap and midcap stocks made a killing last week even as Brexit blues wiped out nearly $3 trillion from global markets.     The S&P; BSE Smallcap index rose 5.4 per cent during the week while S&P; BSE Midcap index gained 4.8 per cent compared with a 2.8 per cent rally in the S&P; BSE Sensex.     "The most heartening part was that last week's rally was broadbased, spreading across sectors and market-caps and that is what gives us a lot of confidence with respect to the strength in the market," Amisha Vora, Joint MD, Prabhudas Lilladher, said in an interview with ET Now.     The S&P; SBE Sensex is trading at a PE of 19.78 compared with the S&P; BSE Smallcap index, which is trading at a PE of 42.36. The S&P; BSE Midcap index is trading at a PE of 25.18.     High-beta Smallcap and Midcap stocks surged in a volatile global environment supported by reform boost from the government, the progress of monsoon and hopes of likely passage of the GST bill.     Smallcap stocks that generated double-digit returns include names like Adhunik Industries, Virtual Global, Indiabulls Ventures, Gujarat NRE Coke, Castex Technologies and Tree House Education.     Midcap stocks that gave double-digit return included names like Jaiprakash Associates, Shilpa Medicare, Motilal Oswal, McLeod Russel, Prism Cements and Jubilant FoodWorks, among others.        Global stocks, too, shrugged off concerns of Brexit on expectation of possible central bank action across the globe, which could involve further quantitative easing or measures to inject more liquidity into the financial system.     "Globally, we are in a phase in which markets are enjoying or rejoicing the return of easy money or continuation of that easy money for some more time," Vora said.     Analysts do not see a big correction in the market in the short term, but a vertical rise from 8,000 level to near 8,400 level might draw profit booking or a bit of consolidation before the index continues its upward journey.     "After a stellar performance this week, the market could take a breather next week and it is possible that we may see some correction as investors start coming out of the euphoria of risk-on trade," said Pankaj Sharma, Head of Equities, Equirus Securities.     "Somehow, we also get the feeling that the market is discounting the 'bad news' very quickly, which may not be a good thing always. Over the past few weeks, there have been many examples like the departure of RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, Brexit, high inflation and poor IIP data. But nothing seems to matter at all," he said.     Expectations of a likely passage of the GST bill, upcoming June quarter earnings as well as progress of monsoon should keep the market afloat and prevent any meaningful correction.     "Going forward, it is unlikely that the market would correct a lot from current level because the domestic investor sentiment has really turned positive. Investors are hoping for strong first quarter earnings and if they really are, I think this momentum could continue," Rajat Sharma, CEO, Sana Securities, said in an interview with ET Now.     "We are looking to get into some of the beaten down sectors to make high-beta returns in case the market continues with this momentum. Three sectors where we are focussing are steel, power and oil and gas," he said.  

