URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/eight-things-twitter-needs-to-do-to-stay-relevant/articleshow/53614085.cms

Title : Eight things Twitter needs to do to stay relevant - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : unhappy shareholders,Twitter,key-people exits,falling stock price,Asymmetrique

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.17 AM IST

Document ID : 303

Content:
 As of last week, rumours of Twitter's buyout/takeover have started brewing. About time, one would say, given that since its IPO launch, the micro-blogging platform has been in the news for:     Stunted user growth, falling stock price, key-people exits, unhappy shareholders, and angry investors. Scores of articles and a handful of hardbound books have been written on the 'why' and 'how' of Twitter's downfall.         And all of them seem to converge at one point: Lack of a strong vision to grow and monetise the platform. Shiladitya Mukhopadhyaya, popular twitter user (@shiladitya) and founder of Pointshelf, has the best analogy to explain this: "Twitter's own premise of being the world's "Town hall" has become its handicap. It's struggling to keep users happy and its voice independent, while also coaxing businesses to come and place ads. Like a town mayor not allowing businesses to sell their wares in the 'Town hall' where the community meets; because he fears they'll just stop attending."         That said,   neither him , nor the other digital aces we spoke to, feel there's any dearth of potential. "There's no other platform online that offers engagement like Twitter does," says Nitin Gupta, MD & CEO of Asymmetrique     . He does hold Twitter stock so you could allege he's biased or purely wishful but the man does have a point: Twitter remains the most potent instant-news platform and the biggest 'open' platform in an environment where the likes of Facebook aren't gaining any brownie points for deleting your controversial posts and deciding what you see on your timeline.         It's also emerged as the "de facto government customer support medium" especially in India, as rightly pointed out by Abhishek Asthana, a twitter influencer (@GabbbarSingh)   and asst     . brand manager at Reckitt Benckiser India.        Therefore, we decided against becoming the nth publication to delve into the 'whys' and hows' and tried to focus on the 'what next?' instead. Here are eight things we think Twitter can do to come out of its dark phase:     1) Set the narrative straight   It's nice to say 'Twitter is what you make of it' but that's not taking the platform too far, is it? "Focus on establishing the credentials of Twitter on the tangible impact it makes on users (backed by data), rather than trying to justify its performance in comparison to some of the other platforms out there," suggests Vineet Gupta, MD of 22feet Tribal DDB.    2) Get Twitter-Periscope integration right   So that users stop migrating to Snapchat or Instagram Stories for all things live-video-streaming, warns Asthana aka @GabbbarSingh.    3) Lose Promoted Trends   Amaresh Godbole, MD - India at DigitasLBi, has had instances where marketers found that the brownie points they would earn by demonstrating organic pick-up of their content via a trending hashtag could not be claimed because it was a 'paid-to-trend' hashtag to begin with, even though it would have eventually trended anyway. Promoted trends haven't even worked for Facebook, Pointshelf's Mukhopadhyaya notes. Why do you want to stick to them when they can potentially render organic trends valueless?    4) Social commerce, Publisher-focused solutions   With News often breaking on Twitter, and even mainline media (print and television) carrying tweets, promoting hashtags and making reference to Twitter commonly, Twitter hasn't yet cracked a way to monetise this effectively, says Ashok Lalla, an independent digital and marketing advisor. Social commerce (promoting eComm via Twitter) is another area Twitter should focus on since it benefits both users and brands, he feels. Twitter Emojification, whenever it picks up, should help in that direction, we reckon.    5) Expand your network   This may sound ironic given that Twitter is known for its engagement prowess. Asthana feels, "Twitter's industry connect is very limited. I have met business managers from FB and Google dozens of times, not once have I been approached by a Twitter India official. Heck, I have even met the Tinder India team," he rues.    6) Tackle trolls   The issue of trolls, threats, and abuse on Twitter is real. "It's put off a lot of people," says Lakshmipathy Bhat (@bhatnaturally) who enjoys a strong Klout score on Twitter himself. It also keeps a lot of non-users from trying the platform out. Karthik Srinivasan, national lead of Social@Ogilvy, tells us Twitter has made its verification process less complicated now. The blue-tick users will be able to opt out of getting mentions from unverified users, he says. A bit too late in the day, but if verification catches up, it can solve the troll issue to a large extent, we feel.    7) Kerning ?   Innovating: 22feet's Gupta complains there's hardly been any visible innovation on the platform. There have been minor tweaks to make the interface better, but there needs to be some innovation to make the platform utilitarian as well, we think. Twitter is in the process of introducing some measures to make the platform less complicated though: By doing things like not including the link of an uploaded picture in the character limit of 140, to allow users to say more in less space. But these are corrective measures. We still demand some hardcore innovations.    8) Utilise the 'Big Data' at hand   Godbole highlights how Facebook knows us, our friends and our interests. Hence, they promise delivery of relevant brand messages at scale by leveraging user's social graph, personal interest data and preferred content formats. Twitter stands to get access to personal data via the verification process. "So far you only had shared data from users on Twitter. This move can change that," says Srinivasan. And it can change the way Twitter pitches its offering to advertisers. His only worry is it isn't too late already.    CMO Leslie Berland on Twitter's listening skills   Amidst a series of exits, Twitter made a prominent hire in former American Express marketer Leslie Berland. She came onboard as the company's CEO in late January this year. Her first media interaction after taking up the job was with Brand Equity during Cannes Lions'16. She wasn't in denial of the bad times looming over Twitter, we observed. "Twitter means different things to different users. My job is to find the one unifying factor," she says. It's evident that she's taken a calculated risk by moving from a secure job at AmEx to one where per month high-level exits weigh out per-year hires at the same level. "Twitter is big on listening to its advertisers. When I was at AmEx, Twitter was the first platform we embraced. An extension of my then team worked extensively with Twitter. It was listening even then. It's in the philosophy of our culture," she says. We hope all the listening pays off.      Leslie Berland (Image: Twitter) 

