URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/after-the-media-fire-in-rio-olympics-heres-how-major-sports-brands-are-talking-to-women/articleshow/53722279.cms

Title : After the media fire in Rio Olympics, here's how major sports brands are talking to women - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 05.20 AM IST

Document ID : 297

Content:
Women don't need to be empowered by a sports brand!" Coming from the marketing director at Adidas India, Damyant Singh, these are bold, honest, and controversial words. Brands often make a classical mistake when talking to women; sports brands especially employed, and still do, a patronising tone. As Singh points out, the line of approach is "'I as a brand license you to pursue sport'". But to continue communicating in that fashion is just madness.  For starters, women, who are the single most powerful consumer group in the world, don't need or desire validation of their life choices from brands. By 2017, women will control $28 trillion in annual consumer spending. Almost 80% of all consumer purchases are driven by women. These are oft repeated statistics which, it seems, don't always ref lect in the degree of urgency, and depth, with which companies across the board are changing their practices. In spite of the inf luence women wield what we're generally served is the result of some type of "pinking and shrinking" - take a product designed for men make it a size smaller and colour it pink. That won't fly anymore.  The other factor that has torpedoed old ways of marketing to women in the sportswear industry is the fact that how women approach sport has evolved. Despite popular belief, women aren't running marathons to lose weight. Or, at the very least, that's not always the primary motivation for running, hiking, kick-boxing, wrestling, dancing, and doing squats, gymnastics or yoga. What also matters is self-respect, keeping fit, competing and pushing personal boundaries. And marketing departments at major sportswear companies are finally paying attention to these ripples in consumers' sentiments and, more importantly, needs.  All major brands have been ramping up existing lines or creating new products specifically designed for women. Nike has launched women'sonly stores, while others are restructuring stores to provide more space to prominently display women's athletic wear and shoes. Nike, which has a higher share (5.7%) than Adidas or Puma of the $176 billion global market for women's shoes, jumped on the athleisure trend when the American brand realised women were wearing sneakers and stretch pants to work and on the weekends. Puma's decision to sign up Rihanna as brand ambassador and creative director was a sign of its commitment to its declaration 'future is female'. Meanwhile Adidas brought on board rapper Kanye West as creative director. The German sportswear giant, however, has been adding more versatile, multi-sport female athletes and not just "hardcore" competitive sport stars to its roster. The company launched a massive global campaign "I'm Here to Create".  Adidas also got industry veteran Nicole Vollebregt to drive the female athlete agenda across the entire business and created a new position of global Women's Creative Director.  As Puma India's managing director Abhishek Ganguly says it's not just about a 3-minute long inspirational film. Not to suggest that these capsules of sweat and blood-fuelled scenes of women power are superfluous vanity projects. Puma itself has plans to launch a women-focused campaign in the near future. A few weeks ago Nike's film 'Da Da Ding' featuring female professional and everyday athletes was the toast of the world. Reebok signed on actor Kangana Ranaut as brand ambassador for 'Fit to Fight' earlier this year. In it Ranaut fights off naysayers on the mats and every time she kicks and punches the bag. Not surprisingly the core narrative of real women, real athletes battling overwhelming odds is what a lot of these ads have in common. However, Under Armour's 'I will what I want' films featuring ballerina Misty Copeland and supermodel Gisele Bundchen are still the industry's benchmark of fempowertising done well. Meanwhile another niche brand, Asics' global social media campaign, 'Want It More', features men and women just doing what it takes to be better, stronger, faster. It's about tough athletes, not tough female athletes. Says Rajat Khurana, director, ASICS India, "Our imagery for all our marketing campaigns highlight men and women sweating and training equally." (See "Why would it matter if you're male or female?")  Perhaps that's the only way to not fall prey to the trappings of fempowertising. Start by not giving us pinked-up kicks, unless we want them, of course. And certainly don't tell us 'it's okay to be your most fierce self'. Nobody likes a pandering fool. An authority in marketing-to-women, Bec Brideson believes, "Brands must position themselves to the heart of a woman, meeting their needs or their feminist dialogue will be short lived and seen as opportunistic rather than as authentic." She adds, "Just like Uber and Airbnb disrupted their industries, there are emerging female entrepreneurs who will launch products and brands that genuinely meet the needs of women. The lazy marketers who have taken their female consumers for granted or who have ignored women will regret not acting now to create female-centric brands."  

