URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/ten-stocks-in-focus-on-friday-08-july-2016/articleshow/53108141.cms

Title : Ten stocks in focus on Friday, 08 July 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,Mahindra Holidays,Lupin,Jagran Prakashan,Indo Count,Idea Cellular,DB Corp,CESC,Bhushan Steel,Bharti Airtel

Date :  Jul 08, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 946

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Friday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "After a strong rally Nifty has witnessed last couple of week this pattern indicates lack of momentum and indecision among buyers and sellers. Chances of a possible trend reversal is extremely high," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.     "A move below 8300 we may see market to correct till 8150-8200 in short term. On the upside bulls need to show enough strength by pushing the market above 8400 level before we can see further rally upside," he added.    Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   DLF:  India's largest real estate developer DLF has shortlisted six potential buyers for 40% stake of the promoters in its rental arm DLF Cyber City Developers Limited that is expected to sell for about Rs 13,000 crore, two people aware of the development said.    Bhushan Steel:  A consortium of 30 banks led by the State Bank of India will meet early next week to decide if Bhushan Steel should be given a lifeline for a second time after it failed to repay monthly payment on a Rs 40,000-crore loan.    Hero MotoCorp:  Private equity firms Multiples, ChrisCapital, Creador Capital, Baring Asia and Partners Group are in race to bu a 10% stake in Hero FinCorp, the vehicle finance arm of top two wheeler maker Hero Moto-Corp, four people with direct knowledge of the matter said.    DB Corp, Jagran Prakashan:  India is considering a proposal to increase the limit on foreign direct investment in local newspapers and magazines, two government officials said on Thursday.    Tata Steel  : India's largest private steel maker Tata Steel is likely to put on hold its plan to sell its steel business in UK after the exit of Britain from European Union raised concerns of the viability of steel business, two people familiar with the development said.    CESC:  Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities India has maintained 'buy' rating on CESC and raised target price by 20% to Rs 725 on expectation of robust earnings growth.    Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India:  The company said that its subsidiary Caribia Service Oy, Finland has been liquidated from July 4, 2016.    Lupin:  Pharma firm Lupin has received Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) from the US health regulator for its Goa facility regarding a inspection done by the USFDA in July last year.    Indo Count Industries Ltd:  Indo Count will be launching new ranges for all three lifestyle brands this September during New York Home Textile Market Week. Indo Count and Walker Greenbank look forward to establishing these successful brands in North America, said a media report.    Vedanta:  Vedanta, which has invested Rs 50,000 crore in Odisha to set up alumina and aluminium-cum-power complexes on expectations of bauxite from the Niyamgiri deposits, has decided to realign its operations in the state, said a media report.    Bharti Airtel, RCom, Idea Cellular:  The department of telecommunications (DoT) is preparing to slap demand notices to the tune of around Rs.12,500 crore on at least six telecom firms after the government auditor found they had under-reported revenue by Rs.46,000 crore, said a media report.    

