URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/internet/manish-prakash-quits-airtel-to-join-telenor/articleshow/53779406.cms

Title : Manish Prakash quits Airtel to join Telenor - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Telenor group,Telenor,South Asia,Manish Prakash,India,Business,Bharti Airtel

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.00 AM IST

Document ID : 961

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Bharti Airtel's director of strategic alliances, Manish Prakash, is leaving the country's top telecom operator after a stint of over two and half years, to join Norway's Telenor Group as the head of enterprise, a person familiar with the matter told ET.     Prakash, who is currently serving his notice period at Bharti Airtel, will join Telenor in September to spearhead the group's enterprise or B2B business globally. At Telenor, he will operate from Singapore, which is the second headquarter after Oslo, Norway, the person added.     Telenor Group is one of the leading mobile operators in the world, with 211 million mobile subscriptions. It has mobile operations in 13 markets, including India.     "Manish has decided to move on and we wish him the very best for his future endeavours. Airtel has consolidated its domestic enterprise, Corporate and small business verticals into one business unit - Airtel Business, which is now led by Ashok Ganapathy," an Airtel spokesperson said. ET queries sent to Telenor went unanswered at the time of going to press. Prakash declined to comment.     Bharti Airtel, in July, restructured the enterprise business with the appointment of Ashok Ganapathy as Director - Airtel Business, who now reports to Gopal Vittal, CEO and Managing Director (India & South Asia), Bharti Airtel.     Prakash, who was serving Airtel as the head of enterprise business, moved into a new role at the company post the restructuring, also reporting into Vittal.     At Bharti Airtel, Prakash helped the telco move away from being a traditional telecom infrastructure provider to digital services and solutions provider during his tenure as the head of enterprise business.     With over 22 years of global experience, Prakash had joined Airtel in January 2014 from Accenture to drive this change in strategy. At Accenture, he served as the Managing Director - Infrastructure Managed Services (IMS) for Asia-Pacific and Japan (APJ).     Prior to Accenture, he was also associated with SK C&C;, the affiliate company of SK Telecom in Korea as the Chief Executive Officer of the international business division and served on the Board of the affiliate organizations across China, India, Central Asia and US. He has also held leadership roles at Tech Mahindra, IBM and Hewlett-Packard.  

