URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//euro-zone-concerns-tight-monetary-policy-take-toll-on-gdp/articleshow/11855975.cms

Title : Euro zone concerns, tight monetary policy take toll on GDP - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : European Central Bank,Euro zone,Euro crisis,Bank of England

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 05.33 AM IST

Document ID : 441

Content:
      The stock markets rallied further last week on the expectations of an agreement between lending institutions and Greece. The government and lending institutions in Greece were in discussions from the past several weeks on a funding of around 130 billion Euros. Greece needs this fund to sort out its immediate commitments of sovereign debt that would otherwise have resulted in a credit default.             Although the developments suggest an agreement has been reached, analysts believe there are many implementation issues still remaining. Also, issues around the austerity measures to be implemented by Greece have not yet been resolved. These issues may crop up in the near future to haunt market sentiments. The developments in Greece kept the currency and commodity markets very volatile during the last couple of weeks.             It is important to note that the markets have gone up by almost 20 percent in the last couple of months, and a correction or consolidation phase seems due. Analysts are advising individual investors to remain cautions and start booking profits.             These are some major factors expected to drive the market sentiment in the short to medium terms:        Euro region developments        The latest data points suggest that in general the Euro zone economy contracted in the fourth quarter of last year. The UK economy contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. Analysts predict the Euro zone will go into a recession this quarter (recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth).             There are also signs indicating the economy may start recovering in the next few months. However, the measures taken by the Euro zone policymakers will decide the duration and intensity of the recession in the Euro zone.             The European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England are preparing to offer further stimulus packages to support the financial sector as well as the economy in the region. The Bank of England has already announced more stimulus packages and an extended period of low interest rate regime to fight the economic slowdown. The ECB officials are also expected to come out with similar steps to aid the economic activity in the region.             The economic stimulus and easing is good news for emerging markets. Historically, a portion of stimulus money is channelled into the stock and commodity markets here. Analysts believe one can expect a repeat of the same trend in the near future if the central banks in the Euro region come out with more stimulus packages by printing more money.        Inflation drops in China        Data in the recent past has shown that the inflation rate in China has come down to comfortable levels at around four percent. The inflation rate in China went up to around 6.5 percent last year.             This is good news for the world economy. Analysts are hoping for some monetary easing and government support in China for the manufacturing sector. Since China is the largest importer of many goods and raw materials, some policy easing in China will result in a hardening of prices in the commodity markets.        GDP growth forecast dip        The economic growth here is expected to hit a threeyear low in the current fiscal at around 6.9 percent. Last year, the GDP grew by a healthy 8.4 percent. The main reasons for the lower GDP growth are the ongoing uncertainty in the Euro zone as well as the tight monetary policy regime here which adversely impacted the manufacturing sector.             The services sector is expected to post a healthy growth this year, but growth is expected to remain sluggish in sectors such as agriculture, forestry and fishing, manufacturing, and construction.    

