URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/success-of-sdg-dependent-on-brics-countries-sumitra-mahajan/articleshow/53785246.cms

Title : Success of SDG dependent on BRICS countries: Sumitra Mahajan - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sumitra Mahajan,poor,Lok Sabha Speaker,gdp,Brics

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 03.56 PM IST

Document ID : 688

Content:
  JAIPUR: Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan today called upon the BRICS countries to present a united front for successful implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, saying their success will be heavily dependent on the outcome in these nations.     Delivering the inaugural speech at the meeting of BRICS Women Parliamentarians' Forum here, she said India's development agenda is mirrored in the SDG and the country has chosen the path of removing poverty by empowering the poor.     "We have chosen the path of removing poverty by empowering the poor. Initiatives have been launched by India for promoting inclusion and social advancement," Mahajan said.     "The BRICS countries together comprise 43 per cent of the world population, contributing 37 percent of the world GDP. The success of the SDGs will be heavily dependent on their successful implementation in the BRICS countries. So with agreement reached on the 'what' we have to get on with the 'how'," she said.     The Speaker also laid stress on strengthening cooperative mechanism among the member countries.     "The implementation of the SDGs will be successful only when we present a united front. In order to leverage our position with regard to issues of global concern, especially the SDGs, the BRICS countries need to strengthen cooperative mechanisms and to innovate new institutional means for meeting the needs of the member countries," the Speaker said.     Mahajan said the setting up of the New Development Bank (NDB) by the BRICS countries can be instrumental in filling the massive gap in investment in infrastructure and sustainable development resources in emerging and developing economies.     Acknowledging the role of women parliamentarians from the BRICS countries in achieving the SDGs, she called upon them to ensure the implementations of the goals.  

