URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/artrepreneurs-when-the-world-of-startups-inspires-the-most-popular-form-of-art/articleshow/53502522.cms

Title : Artrepreneurs: When the world of startups inspires the most popular form of art - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : The Apprentice UK,Startup-U,silicon valley,Draper University of Heroes,Donald Trump

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 05.12 AM IST

Document ID : 313

Content:
 A bit of both, actually. While startup culture has inspired several people to quit their jobs and pursue their dreams, profit, or both, it has also bled its way into entertainment the way few other things have. For instance, the two major shows on plain old advertising — one of which was major only using a very liberal definition of the term — were The Crazy Ones starring Robin Williams and of course Mad Men. Compare that to the world of entrepreneurs which has inspired a glut of programming. Here are a few of the most noteworthy: When the world of startups inspires the most popular form of art consumed by the largest number of people worldwide: the television show and/or the web series.   Silicon Valley   With age, Mike Judge has moved from the manic political incorrectness of Beavis & Butthead, an animated show from the 90s about a couple of dumb heavy metal fans to one of the sharpest sitcoms in television history. The series tracks the misadventures of Richard Hendricks as he pivots the unwittingly created 'middle-out compression solution' Pied Piper through various avatars. It's also one of the smartest shows on TV and off it: you can actually browse through websites for many of the companies mentioned on the show including piedpiper.com, bachmanity.com and valleywag styled gossip blog code/rag, now a site full of puff pieces for its new owner Hooli. While other shows like The Big Bang Theory make slightly half-assed references to YouTube, very few have broken into the 'real' world as confidently as Silicon Valley. People in the valley tell us it's a lot more lifelike than most people out of San Francisco would imagine and being parodied on the show has become a very, very real danger.    The Apprentice UK   While the American show can be praised (or not) for bringing Donald Trump to prominence, across the pond, The Apprentice UK took a decidedly more entrepreneurial slant starting from Season 7. The prize was no longer a paid apprenticeship with British magnate Lord Sugar, but had him investing £250,000 to back the winner's dream venture. So far everything from an SEO optimisation agency to a specialist recruitment firm have been funded.      Picture: The Apprentice UK   Startup-U   A recent reality TV show that tracks aspiring businessmen and women with ideas ranging from sparkling kitty litter to 3D printed housing, as they hone their concepts at the Draper University of Heroes, an entrepreneurship school run by California-based venture capitalist Timothy Draper. Only a season old so far, the show is an odd combination of homage to Draper and his family, Big Boss style confessionals, rivalries between students, bizarre tasks that are supposed to hone their business acumen and some fairly serious discussions on their startup plans and what it will take to make them work.    TVF Pitchers   An idea that quite possibly would have been impossible to pull off in an era where web series didn't exist, TVF Pitchers follows a group of friends as they ditch the drudgery of their corporate existence to start their own firm. The product placement is a little heavy handed — literally every product is handled such that the logo gets a lot of screen time — but hey, what did you expect in a series that has no designated commercial breaks? On the plus side, the characters, their language and the overarching plot have an authenticity to them. The series clocked in some impressive viewership numbers on YouTube and has a loyal fanbase clamouring for Season II.     

