URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/the-cpi-wpi-divergence-will-gradually-narrow-upasna-bhardwaj-kotak-bank/articleshow/53721328.cms

Title : The CPI, WPI divergence will gradually narrow: Upasna Bhardwaj, Kotak Bank - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,Upasna Bhardwaj,So,risk,product,place,new,monetary policy,Kotak Bank,Inflation,in,IIP,Food,et now,ET,Core inflation

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 02.36 PM IST

Document ID : 638

Content:
  in a chat with ET Now, Upasna Bhardwaj, Economist, Kotak Bank, says the core inflation looks to be slightly in the positive territory after multiple months of contraction. Edited excerpts        ET Now: How would you join the dots? Is the WPI number comes in closer to 3%, 2.8-3.0%, and we are tying that in with an IIP at a seven-month high and a CPI at a two-month high?         Upasna Bhardwaj:    Well see even if we look at the CPI inflation most of the upside had been driven because of the food price inflation and that is what is likely to happen even in the WPI series. However, leaving aside the food inflation, WPI has also got an adverse base effect because of which we will continue to see WPI really inch up higher and higher because we have already seen the commodity prices bottom out. So clearly when it comes to CPI and WPI, the kind of divergence that we have seen will begin to gradually narrow as we go into the rest of the year and that is how I expect that we should be getting a number closer to 3%.        ET Now: The gap so to speak because this rise in WPI has not really come in from where it was supposed to which is an improvement in manufacturing product prices, bringing in more pricing power for the manufacturing side of the industry. It is pretty much aligning itself with the issues that the CPI has been reporting on high food inflation?         Upasna Bhardwaj:    Yes, absolutely. I think we were looking at the manufacturing price growth of around 1.8% which is where we have got that but definitely the surprise element is primary articles, particularly food and definitely it remains a worrisome trend but given the kind of progress on monsoon we have seen definitely we should be nearing the peak if not really the peak, maybe one more reading and after that we should start seeing deceleration in food prices significantly impact both CPI and WPI in that context. So we are looking at food price disinflation to really come into the picture in the next subsequent two to three readings which should bring down overall the upside risk lower. But having said that, on the other side, yes the manufacturing inflation should continue to trend up and while we still do not have all the details but the core inflation looks to be slightly in the positive territory after multiple months of contraction so we will have to see that.        ET Now: What does this do for monetary policy stance going forward from here because we are going to be looking at a new RBI governor being announced very soon, a monetary policy committee will be put in place at the start of September. How do you think this data really sets ground for the next policy review?         Upasna Bhardwaj:    Well, like we have already talked about the future course of inflation trajectory we are looking at some deceleration in food inflation which should help us and at the same time particularly because CPI is the anchor for inflation targeting, we are looking at the second half of CPI being fairly comfortable, base effect is helping and at the same time we have the food disinflation which will set in. So, definitely we are looking at the inflation target for the last quarter of this financial year closer to 5% being achieved.     Having said that, it is important to realise that we will be having collective decision making henceforth with the new monetary policy committee in place and a new governor so we will have to wait and watch what the exact ideology of the new MPC is going to be. But at the moment we are calling for 25 bps of rate cut some time later this year and post that and any decision beyond that will be a function of what the ideology of the new MPC would be.  

