URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//bengaluru-firm-says-no-to-middlemen/articleshow/51579911.cms

Title : Bengaluru firm says no to middlemen - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Ninjacart,middlemen in Bengaluru,Bengaluru firm

Date :  Mar 27, 2016, 10.30 PM IST

Document ID : 411

Content:
  By Nivedita Mishra     KORMANGALA: Experts have been talking about the huge scope for startups in the country. So far, only online sale of articles or payment system have been explored. But now, the startups are reaching to places where they are needed most, i.e. farmers. Ninjacart, a Bengaluru based online B2B marketplace which connects farmers and brands to retailers, has started working to reduce the role of middleman.'     By the success of the startups in little span of time like two months, it highlights the huge possibility in agriculture. In a short span of two months, Ninjacart is supplying more than 15 tonne of vegetables and fruits daily to over 120 retailers of which 98 percent order every day, says the spokesperson of the group. The company is witnessing a phenomenal week-on-week growth of 30 percent with monthly revenue of Rs 1.2 Cr. The company is operationally cash positive as the complete business runs on a cash and carry model (No credit sales).     Founded by former Taxiforsure, OLA and Commonfloor executives, Ninjacart through its platform helps supermarkets, kirana stores and stand alone shops to source fresh fruits and vegetables, staples and FMCG goods at competitive prices directly from farmers and brands.     And obiviously, funders are also showing their interest in these B2B ideas. Recently, Ninjacart has raised around `20 Cr ($3 million) in its Series A round of funding led by Accel Partners with the participation of Qualcomm Ventures, M&S; Partners (Singapore) and Zop Smart. It is working to reduce role of middlemen between farmers and shopkeepers.     Commenting on the latest round of funding, Thirukumaran Nagarajan, Co-founder & CEO said, "Due to marginal farming, poor logistics and zero market information there are numerous middlemen involved in getting the produce from farmers to markets. The farmer gets only one fourth of what the consumer pays. We try to solve these problems by bridging the gaps so that the farmer gets a good value for his produce and the stores get quality goods at competitive price."     Commenting on the latest fund raising, Subrata Mitra, Partner at Accel Partners said, "B2B fresh and staples is a multi billion dollar category. It's highly unorganized and inefficient. The founding team at Ninjacart has the right balance of technology and operations expertise to drive efficiencies in this unstructured marketplace."     The company started operations in May 2015 as a hyperlocal grocery delivery company. After six months of operation Ninjacart felt the backend supply chain of Fruits and Vegetables is broken and inefficient. By, December 2015 the company pivoted its model to become a full-fledged B2B marketplace, thus changing the way kirana stores and supermarkets source their supply.    

