URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/mukesh-bansal-on-his-sabbatical-after-my-exit-i-felt-relieved/articleshow/53695495.cms

Title : Mukesh Bansal on his sabbatical: 'After my exit, I felt relieved' - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Singapore,Ramchandra Guha,Nandan Nilekani,Microsoft,Linkedin,john keith,Haridwar,Flipkart,Entrepreneurship

Date :  Aug 14, 2016, 01.03 PM IST

Document ID : 712

Content:
  As far as  Mukesh Bansal  is concerned, job titles come and go. He takes a more philosophical view of his career. On a popular professional networking website, Bansal, who was Myntra's CEO and quit as Flipkart's head of commerce in March this year, describes his designation as W.I.P. — Work In Progress.     After a sabbatical devoted to family, friends, some travel and plenty of reading, Bansal has re-entered the startup space with CULT, a Bengaluru-based fitness company. The 40-year-old admits he is still easing into the hectic pace of being back at a workplace and is buoyant about his next venture.     At his new office in Bengaluru, the entrepreneur opened up about how he spent his break, his passion for fitness and books. Excerpts from an interview:    How was your break after you left Flipkart?   After exiting Flipkart, I felt relieved because the last nine to ten years were intense. A big weight has been lifted off my shoulders. I spent time reflecting on my journey so far and planning my future.    How did you keep yourself occupied?   It was not a challenge at all. I read books. Fitness and travel also kept me occupied. I worked out every day for two hours, doing a combination of crossfit, mixed martial arts and yoga. Entrepreneurship is a stressful profession. I can't imagine working without working out.     I visited Singapore and Hong Kong. I connected with folks and friends. I have little social life. I don't party. I like an occasional glass of wine. I typically go to bed by 9.30 pm and wake up at 5.30 am.    In your goodbye email to colleagues at Flipkart, you mentioned that you will read, spend time with kids and travel. Share your book list.   I picked two themes — India and Artificial Intelligence. Understanding India was important for our next venture. So I created a reading list of 10 to 12 books on Kindle that included Indian History by John Keith, Freedom At Midnight by Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre, India After Gandhi by Ramchandra Guha, and Rebooting India and Imagining India, both by Nandan Nilekani.     Artificial Intelligence is causing massive disruption and will have an impact on every aspect of business life in the next five years. I read books like The Master Algorithm by Pedro Domingos and Artificial Intelligence For Humans by Jeff Heaton. I live a simple life.    How did you spend time with your kids?   My daughter, 12, wants to be a sprinter. Besides getting her a coach, I helped her train for the track and field. My son, 7, is taking interest in my favourite subject — mathematics. I helped him out academically. I had a different childhood growing up in Haridwar in the 1980s. Today, kids have great exposure. I prescribe balance to my kids. Pursue anything you want but with hard work and sincerity.    You are a fitness enthusiast. Tell us about your regimen.   My regimen has evolved over the years. I started working out 12 to 13 years ago. I work out five to six times a week. I was into sports during my growing years — cricket, tennis, golf, badminton. Today, I don't enjoy traditional gym. Old-fashioned body building is more for aesthetics and less about fitness and good health. High intensity interval training for 15 to 20 minutes has much more impact. Health is my primary focus now.    Who are some of the fittest CEOs, according to you?   Most of the American technology CEOs look fit. Satya Nadel la of Microsoft, Jack Dorsey of Twitter... these guys look amazing. They look lean, are energetic and healthy.    You are backing a Bengaluru-based fitness startup CULT. How much did you invest in it? Are you planning to acquire it?   I can't disclose the amount. But I am a pretty significant shareholder in CULT now. The core differentiator with this startup is that it's a trainer-led group class. There are some boutique centres in Bengaluru and India who are experimenting with this format. But we will scale up this model and make it a national brand.    Your current designation on Linkedin is W.I.P. Explain.   Work In Progress. The reason I put it there is because I don't believe in titles. Can we build a company where people work without designations because it brings a lot of hierarchy? It's a symbolic way of saying that I have no title. Whatever I do is my title.  

