URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/borrow/should-you-invest-or-pay-off-your-student-loans-first/articleshow/53569592.cms

Title : Should you invest or pay off your student loans first? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tax,saving,Loan,ET Wealth,emis

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 379

Content:
  Varun recently completed his MBA from a top B-school and got a job with a multinational, which has given him a joining bonus of Rs 3 lakh. He dreams of making it big in life but has a daunting Rs 15 lakh education loan to pay off over the next seven years. He has been told that the 20s are the best time to start investing, and he wants to invest the joining bonus. However, he is not sure. Should he begin saving for his future or pre-pay a part of his student debt with the funds?     Varun has to pay back his student loan on time and cannot default on monthly payments if he wants to keep his credit history in good shape. To ensure timely payment, the EMIs should be automated and treated as mandatory expense. Next, before he thinks of investing the windfall, he should figure out whether or not he has an emergency corpus. If he doesn't, he could consider using the Rs 3 lakh he has in hand to set it up. This will provide a back up for paying off his loan even if he loses his job due to unforeseen circumstances.     If he does have an emergency fund in place, he could consider prepaying the loan. He should begin by enquiring about the pre-payment norms of the lender, especially with respect to penalties. Also, the interest paid on an education loan is eligible for deduction under Section 80E of the Income Tax Act. This is a benefit he would lose out on in the event of pre-payment. Therefore, he must be mindful of the fact that there is a trade-off involved. He has to compute the impact of loss of tax benefit and prepayment penalties vis-a-vis the interest payment.     In case the math works out in favour of loan prepayment, he should use the opportunity to reduce his debt. At the same time, he could use his single status as an opportunity to save and invest. He should invest a part of his monthly surplus for his future goals, because when he decides to start a family, there will be more demands and pressures on his income. He must reduce his current debt and make a start towards saving, albeit a humble one.     (The content on this page is courtesy Centre for Investment Education and Learning (CIEL). Contributions by Girija Gadre, Arti Bhargava and Labdhi Mehta)  

