URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/sensex-reclaims-mt-28k-nifty50-hits-52-week-high-top-5-reasons-behind-rally/articleshow/53379059.cms

Title : Sensex reclaims Mt 28K, Nifty50 hits 52-week high; Top 5 reasons behind rally - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,Shinzo Abe,services tax,Sensex,portfolio,people,nifty,News,New Delhi,MT,Motilal Oswal,Morgan Stanley,markets,Market,IOC,Infosys,indian oil,ICICI bank,HPCL,HDFC bank,finance,ETNow,ET,equities,debate,BPCL,Angel Broking

Date :  Jul 25, 2016, 03.34 PM IST

Document ID : 781

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The S&P; BSE Sensex rose over 200 points in afternoon trade on Monday to reclaim the crucial psychological level of 28,000, led by gains in ICICI Bank, HDFC, HDFC Bank, SBI and Infosys.     The Nifty50 rose over 80 points to hit a fresh 52-week high of 8,631.85, supported by gains in sectors such as oil & gas, realty, consumer durable and banking stocks, which rose over 1 per cent each.     Going by the buzz on Dalal Street, here are the top five factors driving the rally in Indian stocks.    Global liquidity:  After starting on a muted note, the domestic market rallied in line with other Asian markets, which were trading at a nine-year high after policymakers from the Group of 20 countries agreed over the weekend to work together to support global growth.     The Bank of Japan is widely expected to ease policy further at a review ending on Friday, while Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has ordered fiscal stimulus, media reports confirmed.     The US Federal Reserve's forthcoming policy meeting starting on July 26 is also likely to be a non-event, as analysts across the globe expect the central bank to maintain status quo.     "Fears of a rate hike in the US have abated, people are now down to expecting at worst one rate hike from the US Fed this year and even that is coming under a bit of a debate right now," Sanjay Mookim, BofA-Merrill Lynch, said in an interview with ETNow.     "As long as there is no concern about central banks' actions turning hawkish or any other adversity, the hunt for yield would continue, which can continue to push markets in the short term," he said.    GST bill will be presented this week:  The Goods & Services Tax (GST) bill will be taken up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha this week and the government is not leaving any stone unturned to make the all important reform a reality.     The new administrative framework and the Congress party's demand to cap tax rate in the Constitution are expected to figure at a meeting of the empowered group of state finance ministers on Tuesday, said an ET report.     There is a high likelihood of GST becoming a reality in the monsoon session and a lot of it is not even factored in by the market completely, which means more upside. The recent surge in the logistics stocks, as well as consumer stocks, confirms the view.     "We always believe that the good news always takes a long time to sink in. And a 500-point rally cannot capture the upside, which the GST will bring in," Rajat Rajgarhia, CEO-Institutional Equities, Motilal Oswal Securities, said in an interview with ETNow.     "Our understanding will get better once we see the implementation of the GST and the impact it bring on to the numbers and the stocks can have a multi-year some of the specific stocks can have a multi-year upside based on this one big event itself," he said.    Huge support from FPIs:  Overseas investors have infused more than $2 billion into the Indian capital markets so far this month on rising hopes of passage of the GST Bill in the Rajya Sabha.     The investment in July is followed by an outflow of Rs 4,373 crore in the preceding two months (May-June). The pullout was mainly due to outflow in debt markets, said a report.     According to data from the depositories, net investment of foreign portfolio investors (FPI) in the stock market stood at Rs 8,086 crore during July 1-22 while it was Rs 6,917 crore in the debt market, taking the total inflow to Rs 15,003 crore ($2.2 billion).    OMC rally after Morgan Stanley upgrade:  OMC stocks such as IOC, HPCL as well we BPCL rally up to 4 per cent in trade after Morgan Stanley report. The global investment bank upgraded IOC to overweight from Equal Weight earlier and has also raised its 12-month target price to Rs 645 from Rs 445 earlier.     Morgan Stanley maintains an overweight rating on HPCL but raised its 12-month target price to Rs 1,536 from Rs 1,001 earlier. It also raised its 12-month target price of BPCL to Rs 749 from Rs 545 earlier.     "The growth in Indian petroleum demand is at 11 per cent which is highest in a decade and globally. Even after 18 months of deregulation, Indian oil marketing companies (OMCs) continue to dominate with over 97 per cent market share," said the report.    Nifty50 eyes 8, 800 level:  The Nifty50 broke past its crucial resistance level of 8,600 to hit its fresh record high of 8,631.20 on Monday. The trend following indicators such as 'Super Trend' and '5 and 20 EMA' crossovers on the daily charts continue to support the Nifty50 in its pursuit to scale higher levels.     If the momentum continues and the Nifty50 breaches 8,655 mark convincingly on the upside the next logical target for the Nifty50 will be around 8,800.     "The 'RSI-smoothened' is also holding above the 70 mark, which also supports our view that the momentum is likely to remain strong. This indicator is still in an upward direction, which we believe should provide impetus to the Nifty to first reach the 8,655 mark and then surge even higher towards 8,800 in the near future," Sameet Chavan, Technical Analyst at Angel Broking, told ETMarkets.com.     "Traders are repeatedly advised not to create aggressive short positions in case of any minor weakness. In fact, these corrective moves should be used as buying opportunities. The immediate support zone is placed in the range of 8,470-8,443," he said.   

