URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/banking/finance/banking/rbi-may-ease-banks-burden-panel-to-decide-on-what-exactly-qualifies-as-a-bank-branch/articleshow/53766876.cms

Title : RBI may ease banks' burden, panel to decide on what exactly qualifies as a bank branch - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : reserve bank of india,RBI,Core Banking Solution,Banking Regulation Act,bank licence

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 11.03 AM IST

Document ID : 25

Content:
  MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India has set up a panel to decide on what exactly qualifies as a bank branch. The move is aimed to provide more flexibility to banks as new technology enables them to extend most services without the trappings of a traditional branch.    RBI's present licensing policy requires that one out of every four branches should be opened in unbanked areas. This makes it difficult for banks that are yet to build up their urban presence as a branch in an unbanked centre is a loss-making proposition.     Now, the RBI is looking at whether it can accept an alternative definition of a branch which will meet the needs of the people in the region. Instead of focusing on what needs to be in the branch, the RBI is focusing on the office as a fixed outlet with regular timings. Bankers say that alternatives could include having an employee within an existing retail store where one or two persons can man the operations and accounts can be accessed through hand-held devices. While business correspondents have been pitched as an alternative to rural branches, the RBI's main concern is that banking correspondents (BCs) do not have a fixed location and fixed timings.     A more lenient definition will help the newly licensed payments banks and small finance banks, which cannot afford the cost structure of full-fledged commercial banks. Entities which have received a bank licence include digital wallet providers and microfinance companies, which will have to transfer their existing operations into the bank. Wallet companies say that their operations will not be feasible if they are expected to provide full-service branches to customers. The Banking Regulation Act describes a branch as an office at which deposits are received, cheques cashed or money lent. For the purpose of licensing, the RBI defines almost every customer-facing outlet operated by the bank as a branch. For the purpose of financial inclusion, the regulations allow banks to set up 'ultra small branches', which should have minimum infrastructure such as a core banking solution (CBS) terminal linked to a passbook printer and a safe for cash retention for operating large customer transactions and would have to be managed full-time by bank officers/employees.  

