URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/axis-bank-surges-past-kotak-mahindra-bank-on-market-capitalisation-chart/articleshow/53702940.cms

Title : Axis Bank surges past Kotak Mahindra Bank on market capitalisation chart - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,Shares,Retail,R,portfolio,Mumbai,markets,Market,Mahindra,Kotak Mahindra Bank,Kotak Mahindra,insurance,India,in,HDFC bank,ET,end,Business,Balance Sheet,Axis Bank,analysis

Date :  Aug 15, 2016, 03.12 AM IST

Document ID : 817

Content:
  MUMBAI: Axis Bank surged past Kotak Mahindra Bank in market value as investors bet that it is best positioned after HDFC Bank to capture business growth from corporate, retail and capital markets.     The market capitalisation of Axis Bank increased to Rs 1,41,066.94 crore at the close of trade on Friday, compared with Rs 1,39,939.75 crore for Kotak Mahindra Bank, according to data on the BSE website.     "In the past three months, many FPIs (foreign portfolio investors) have been buying this scrip," said Sanjiv Bhasin, executive vice-president, markets and corporate affairs, at IIFL, a financial services company. "Cheaper valuation, management commentary and stock re-ratings collectively have triggered investor interest in Axis Bank shares."     Axis Bank shares have surged 20% to Rs 590.75 in the past three months, while Kotak Mahindra shares shrank 9% to Rs 762.20 on the BSE. Axis Bank's price-to-book value ratio, a measure of stock's valuation, is 2.63 versus 4.19 of Kotak Mahindra Bank, according to data from moneycontrol.com.      The management of Axis Bank has hinted at reducing bad loans towards the end of the current financial year and it expects to attain 18-20% loan growth when the industry may expand at a slower pace. "Axis Bank shares moved up mainly on the back of increased weightage in the MSCI index," said R Sreesankar, head of institutional equities at Prabhudas Lilladher, a broking firm. "The toxin seems to be coming out, cleaning the balance sheet, and fresh g rowth prospects, too, look goo d."Axis Bank was one of two additions to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in February and its weightage was later increased.     The index created by Morgan Stanley Capital International measures the equity market performance in 23 emerging economies.     The domestic bank's market value of $21.09 billion exceeds that of global giant Deutsche Bank, which shrank to $19.68 billion, according to Bloomberg. A month earlier, retail-focused Kotak Mahindra Bank had beaten the global lender on the same gauge.     An ET analysis shows that Axis Bank is close to ICICI Bank's market cap, now pegged at $21.39 billion. Axis Bank is promoted jointly by Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) - formerly known as Unit Trust of India - and a group of state-owned insurance companies, A cluster of 10 large to small-size public sector banks (except State Bank of India) have a collective market cap of about $16.89 billion, show data from Bloomberg.     About a year ago, Kotak Mahindra's market cap had surpassed its larger rival Axis Bank, which was battling corporate bad loans. During the April-June quarter, Axis Bank's net profit slipped 21% year-on-year to Rs 1,556 crore, hit by provisions for bad loans and high operating expenses.   

