URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//value-picks-yield-high-in-volatile-markets/articleshow/12129510.cms

Title : Value picks yield high in volatile markets - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Union Budget,RBI,India,greece,gdp

Date :  Mar 04, 2012, 06.55 AM IST

Document ID : 421

Content:
      The stock markets have been on a high since the beginning of this year. The markets are volatile now. The main reasons behind the volatility are profit booking at higher price levels and developments on the global as well as domestic economic fronts.             The domestic stock markets are expected to do well in the medium term as the uncertainty in the European markets seems to have been resolved for the time being, and inflation dropping here will enable the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ease the monetary policy, going forward.             These are some of the major factors contributing to the volatility in the stock markets:        Global factors        The ongoing uncertainty in the European region has been one of the main reasons behind the negative sentiments in the global markets over the last few months. The recent discussions and resolution of the sovereign debt crisis of Greece, and the announcement of the second round of long-term refinance operation (LTRO) in Europe are expected to cool the nervousness in the European region.             However, the situation in the European region is still not fully under control, and investors can expect some negative news, going forward , as the unemployment rate in the region is rising and some economies are already in mild recession.        Domestic factors        On the domestic front, the GDP growth has dropped to a three-year low. However, the positive news is the inflation rate has come under control. This will release some of the pressure on the RBI, and enable the central bank to effect some monetary easing to boost economic growth.             However, investors should track the Union Budget and rising commodity prices due to the monetary easing in the European and US markets closely. A sharp rise in the price of crude oil can be a sentiment dampener for the domestic markets.        Volatility natural to markets        Volatile movements in the stock markets are a basic nature. The markets can come down or go up based on several domestic as well as global factors. In fact, volatility creates opportunities for both investors and traders in the markets.               Here are some strategies for investors in the current market conditions:        For medium, long-term investors        The economic fundamentals of the domestic economy are quite strong and the prospects for business are quite good. Long-term investors should invest at every significant correction .             Investors with a medium to long-term horizon should not panic during a market correction phase and instead use the opportunity to buy or accumulate fundamentally-strong stocks with a positive outlook. A market correction phase provides opportunities to buy such stocks at significant discounts to their regular market prices.             Investing at regular intervals in smaller lots ensures a good entry price for long and medium-term investors.        For short-term investors        Volatile market conditions provide opportunities for traders and short-term investors. Short-term trading looks attractive as investors can ride on volatile market waves to make short-term gains in quick time. However, timing and tracking market movements is very important for this category of investors.             It is highly recommended to trade in the markets with a tight stop-loss and book profit level for all open positions during volatile market conditions. Maintaining a stop-loss level for open positions helps in cutting down losses and conserves cash in order to be able to invest further and not get stuck with a bad investment.            Booking profits or part profits at regular intervals is also recommended in volatile market conditions.    

