URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/celebrity-endorsements-selling-the-brand-not-the-actor/articleshow/53723285.cms

Title : Celebrity endorsements: Selling the brand, not the actor - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.12 AM IST

Document ID : 295

Content:
I f you're a classic Bollywood buff, the script of Dr Fixit's latest ad is a delight. In the spirit of taking the best of both worlds (Sahir Ludhianvi and Javed Akhtar), it combines phrases from famous songs 'Kabhie Kabhie mere dil mein khayal aata hai' and 'Ye kahan aa gaye hum' to deliver its message of how Dr Fixit's waterproofing prowess can rain on someone's plans to evoke romance with the next door/next floor neighbour.  And if you were glued to your TV sets on the 15th of August, you may have spotted the commercial and figured out the reason behind weaving in 'idhar bhi hai, udhar bhi' and 'magar ye ho na saka' in the script: Because Amitabh Bachchan, the brand's first celebrity ambassador, is reciting the lines.  Why hire the omnipresent-brand-ambassador, you'd wonder? We did too. Enter Bharat Puri, Pidilite's 1.5 year-old MD (who likes to call himself the "new chocolate boy at Pidilite" since he comes from Cadbury). He tells us that when you have to create a category (like in the case of Dr Fixit), you better do it memorably. His hypothesis is that eight out of 10 people have waterproofing issues. Two out of 10 actually address that problem. "My task is to take the number from two to four." Understood. But how does that translate into roping Big B in, we ask. "You need a voice of authority to change behaviour. And he brings that to the campaign. The key is to make sure your script sells the brand and not the celebrity. Our campaign has Dr Fixit commercials and not Mr Bachchan commercials. He is not Amitabh Bachchan but he is, if you know what I mean." Through the course of our interaction with Puri, we realised there was a successful formula to category creation.  Here are five steps:  1. If you hire a celeb: It should make the product famous, not its ambassador  Creating a category takes time and delivering your message through important people always helps. Puri had got Bollywood's 'Angry Young Man' of a bygone era to be the voice of authority during Cadbury's tough times as well. Later, they continued having him as brand ambassador. "But he made Pappu of the 'Pappu paas ho gaya' fame more popular than his own character," says Puri. "The creative should work well for the product and we felt it did in this case. A lot of times celebrities make up for the lack of idea - I hope you won't say that after watching Dr Fixit's commercials though," he adds.   A lot of times celebrities make up for the lack of idea. I hope you won't say that after watching this ad: Bharat Puri, Pidilite (Image: BCCL)  2. Your sales team is your prime Focus Group  We ask Puri if they've received any interesting (read: negative) remarks on the latest commercial. He said they have enough waterproofing experts in-house for them to look out for expert comments. He knows that releasing the ad without crossing that research lap is a bit of a risk - a calculated one though. "We make sure our sales force watches the campaign before it goes out. These are the people who vote from their heart, because they have to sell the product in the market. If they're very polite and receive your ad with light applause, know that you are in trouble," he says.  3. A creative agency will be your brand custodian only if its treated like your brand custodians Getting client's respect is a luxury very few agencies in the country enjoy - Pidilite's creative agency Ogilvy & Mather happens to be one such. Puri says Pidlite's advertising is always 'cooperatively creative'. "The Pandey brothers (Piyush Pandey of Ogilvy and Prasoon Pandey, director, Corcoise films) own the brand as much as we do. They understand the brand so well at this point that the last few commercials on various brands in our portfolio have gone ahead without a single modification."   Stills from the new Dr Fixit campaign. (Image: BCCL)  4. Know how to use digital  It makes sense to launch a nation-wide mass-media campaign. But using digital medium to spread the message of waterproofing: how is that going to pan out? Or is this yet another brand marking digital off as one of the checkboxes? Puri says the plan is to target the homeowner of the future via digital. "Tomorrow if you decide to buy a house in Mumbai, you'll be worried about the Italian marble, the sanitary branding, the faucets. Nobody actually checks with the builder if the building is waterproofed well so that you won't have a problem three years later." Instead of unleashing pop-up/scroll/ticker ads on the cloud, Dr Fixit will be placed contextually. What's so path-breaking about that now? Puri explains: "We are putting messages on home loan sites saying if you're actually taking a home-loan, make sure your money is well spent because water proofing, if not done right, can be more damaging than anything else.We want to help create a two-way communication channel, which is why we've spent extra money on media to buy more airtime to keep the helpline number on screen for longer than a few seconds."  5. Evangelise, but contextually  Evangelising your brand is commonplace but how does one do that while helping people stick things together? Puri seems to be doing it well. "Whenever I see leakage anywhere, I start telling people about the importance of waterproofing and the right way of doing it. I tell them that paint is just like lipstick. If the walls are weak from the inside, none of these weather shield coats are going to help. You must believe in your brand and tell people where and how you can use it.".  

