URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/switzerland-losing-lustre-now-rich-heading-to-dubai-qatar-and-singapore/articleshow/53428439.cms

Title : Switzerland losing lustre? Now, rich heading to Dubai, Qatar and Singapore - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Switzerland,Singapore,real estate,place,people,net worth,Middle East,luxury,Germany

Date : Jul 28, 2016, 06.33 PM IST

Document ID : 65

Content:
  Switzerland's importance as a private banking hub will shrink after the country increased its tax transparency, according to Indian billionaire Gopichand Hinduja, a shareholder in the family's Geneva-based private bank.     The world's richest people are instead turning to countries like Dubai, Qatar and Singapore to house their assets as Switzerland loses its allure as a haven, the 76-year-old London-based investor said.     "People are finding new havens," Hinduja said in an interview at his office near Buckingham Palace. "I don't think Switzerland can maintain its importance in banking.        Gopichand Hinduja/ Pics: Getty Im ages, Thinkstock photos/Getty Images    Tax probes by the US, France and Germany and a new system of bank-data exchange between governments have scuppered the traditional "no-questionsasked" approach by Swiss banks to serving rich clients living abroad.     North American and European banks are quitting Geneva and Zurich as companies battle with the loss of financial secrecy, the strong Swiss franc and pressure on profitability from low interest rates and tougher regulatory demands.       The Hindujas' mansion Carlton House Terrace in London/ Pics: Getty Images, Thinkstock photos/Getty Images    The Hinduja siblings have an estimated net worth of $14.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Gopichand's older brother Srichand is the founder and chairman of Hinduja Bank Switzerland, which manages 2.3 billion Swiss francs ($2.3 billion) of assets.     Their younger brother Prakash is also a member of the board of directors and lists the luxury Geneva suburb of Cologny as his place of origin on the Swiss companies register. Gopichand Hinduja, who has lived in London for over 30 years, said he's not worried about the long-term effect of Brexit on property values in the city's prime locations.     The family's London real estate assets are valued at more than $1.2 billion. "People from the Middle East, the Gulf and other places will start coming in to invest because of weak sterling," the billionaire said. "No one invests in real estate for the short term.".  

