URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/soon-use-air-seva-portal-to-lodge-your-complaints-against-airlines-or-airports/articleshow/53782191.cms

Title : Soon, use 'air seva' portal to lodge your complaints against airlines or airports - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Mobile Apps,Jayant Sinha,airlines,Air travellers,air seva

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 11.18 AM IST

Document ID : 7

Content:
  NEW DELHI: There's good news for harried air travellers as they will soon be able to lodge complaints against airlines or airports on their mobile apps. Minister of state for aviation Jayant Sinha, who has resolved hundreds of flyer grievances by re-tweeting to airlines passenger complaints tweeted to him, is finalizing "air seva" portal for passengers.     Air travellers will be able to register their complaints on this portal. "A mobile app for 'air seva' is also being developed and flyers will be able to register their complaints on the go. We will shortly launch this portal and mobile app. Ensuring passengers get the care they deserve as consumers is a key priority for us," Sinha told TOI.     What will set 'air seva' apart from existing forums for lodging complaints is that the portal will be run by the aviation ministry and Sinha has decided to give a unique number for each complaint. The ministry will then follow up each complaint and ensure that the genuine ones get addressed at the earliest to the consumer's satisfaction.     "Airlines and airports have their own systems for registering complaints but there is no accountability as no one is monitoring whether the grievances are resolved or not," said a senior ministry official.     Sinha has identified passenger care among three of his top priorities that require immediate attention. The other two things are security and regional connectivity.     Ever since he came to aviation, Sinha has taken to Twitter to resolve consumer grievances. Passengers tweet their grievance to the minister and he re-tweets them to the airline or airport concerned, asking them to resolve the same.     "Using 'air seva,' we will find out where maximum complaints are coming from; which all are the pain points and then find ways to root out those problems from the cause," said Sinha. Clearly, Jayant Sinha has joined the league of ministers like external affairs' Sushma Swaraj and railways' Suresh Prabhu in using social media to address the common man's grievances. "Prime Minister Modi's decision to send Jayant Sinha to aviation, a key infra ministry, has given a push to the sector as the ministry was lacking in political leadership earlier. This has changed now with Sinha's arrival," said a ministry insider.  

