URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//gdp-growth-rate-prospects-positive/articleshow/11856007.cms

Title : GDP growth rate prospects positive - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : World Bank,reserve bank of india,gdp,Central Statistical Office

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 05.38 AM IST

Document ID : 440

Content:
      The lower GDP number of 6.9 percent for 2011-12 released last week by the Central Statistical Office was taken in its stride by the stock markets. The number was not a surprising one. All non-governmental agencies have been reducing their GDP targets for India since June 2011.             The government has been a step behind in acknowledging that the high interest rates and lack of policy action has put the brakes on the economic growth engine. The new estimate shows the potent combination of rate hikes, economic slowdown and price rise is finally taking a toll on the economy.             When you look at the GDP estimate for 2011-12 given by various organisations, the figure has centred around seven percent. In fact, the Central Statistical Office estimate now seems on the lower side and maybe a tad pessimistic. Curiously, the best GDP estimate for the country today is from the World Bank at 8.4 percent, followed by the UN with an estimate of 7.7 percent.             The lower estimate put out by the Central Statistical Office could be due to a very conservative estimate on the agricultural output. The estimates is targeting at 2.5 percent for the full year while the actual output for the first half has been seven percent due to two good harvests.             There could be a possibility of an upward revision in this number later on. But not many people are willing to believe that an upward revision in the GDP estimate will come soon. All industry bodies have said the GDP growth could falter even more if the requisite steps to improve investor confidence are not taken by the government.             They stress on the need for good governance along with measures to act as investment drivers in various sectors of the economy, to start an investment-led growth rather than a consumption-led growth as being witnessed now.        Investment strategy        Investors have to be careful while using this GDP estimate as a factor in their investment strategy. The Central Statistical Office has been one of the last organisations to recognise the deceleration in the GDP growth. But, with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announcing that the peak in the interest rate cycle has been reached, the macroeconomic fundamentals will only get better from the current levels.             The estimate of 6.9 percent does indeed look bad in comparison to the earlier levels of 9-10 percent achieved in the recent past. Yet, given the challenges under which companies here are operating, it is not a bad number. India's GDP growth in the current global economic scenario is one of the highest in the world. With the RBI freezing on rate hikes, the stage is now set for the macroeconomic parameters to improve.             The Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) cut of 50 basis percentage points has infused some liquidity and plenty of confidence in the system. Inflation is showing signs of cooling off. This coupled with a decline in interest rates will create the right environment for the corporate sector to perform better.             But, for the GDP growth rate to acquire a strong trajectory, some good policy action is needed from the government in this Budget. There is an urgent need to bring in reforms, and stabilise the fiscal balance, to get the GDP growth back on track.             Investors should hence be careful and not have a very negative stance on the future GDP growth.    

