URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/lakshmi-vilas-bank-gets-sleek-top-team/articleshow/53768310.cms

Title : Lakshmi Vilas Bank gets sleek top team - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,Lakshmi Vilas Bank,IDBI Bank,Centrum Capital,banking sector,Axis Bank

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 12.50 PM IST

Document ID : 812

Content:
  Mumbai: Lakshmi Vilas Bank has caught the fancy of investors in recent times with its stock surging 83 per cent in the past three months as the lender is trying to reinvent itself with a brand new management team.     With Parthasarathi Mukherjee at the helm, the bank has built a senior team of several senior bank executives, who came from bulge-bracket lenders including HDFC, SBI, Axis Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland, and is hoping to get back on the growth track as fast as it can. Mukherjee, an ace banker from Axis Bank, took up the job steering the fortunes of Lakshmi Vilas Bank about a year ago.     The lender, having lost its way for a while and criticised for its poor performance, plans to raise Rs 400-500 crore to fund its growth.     "We are in the re-inventing mode and we plan to do it with our existing manpower. But there were some gaps and we are filling them," Lakshmi Vilas Bank managing direc tor Mukherjee told ET.     "We believe there's immense opportunity in the mar ket, especially in areas such as retail and small & medium enterprises. Being a South-based bank, we will try to tap the opportunities in the south and then expand to other regions," he said. NS Venkatesh has joined as executive director, LVB, from IDBI Bank, where he was CFO. RVS Sridhar is now the chief risk officer, who served Axis Bank earlier. Govind Ravindran has assumed the role of head consumer lending after serving HDFC for about 15 years in business development. Madhusudhana Rao, with his experience in the State Bank of India, is serving LVB as the chief customer service. Peeush Jain, who was earlier with Royal Bank of Scotland, has joined as the head of business partnership and transformation.     Besides, S Venkatesh, formerly with RBL Bank, is heading the credit and wholesale banking at LVB. B Nedumaran, who was with Ma Foi HR consultancy, is looking after human resources. "LVB is a growth stock," said Aalok Shah, banking & fi nancial services an alyst, Centrum Capital.  

