URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/express-shuttle-to-startups-meet-the-people-who-shifted-gears-rules-of-the-game/articleshow/53394651.cms

Title : Express Shuttle To Startups: Meet the people who shifted gears & rules of the game - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zivame,Vivek Prabhakar,Shubhra Chadda,Richa Kar,Gaurav Nabh

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 05.20 AM IST

Document ID : 315

Content:
 Richa Kar Founder & CEO, Zivame Previously:  Spencer's Retail, Oracle and SAP    The Shift  Retail Marketing (general) to Vertical Ecomm    Moment of Truth  While I was studying the Indian lingerie market as part of my previous job, I realised there was so much social awkwardness around buying it, that it got reduced to a five minutes hurried chore. The offline nature of the business also resulted in limited stocking, because of which most women were deprived of variety in terms of styles and sizes. Zivame was conceptualised to become that place where women can understand their lingerie needs, browse through styles, order for their right size and get the order delivered to their doorstep without any embarrassment.    Biggest Crisis  No crisis so far. Biggest challenge has been to make the most intimate category more acceptable and mainstream; to help consumers unlearn and undo mistakes that they had been making while dealing with the category.    Combat Strategy  Breaking taboos, making the category more acceptable. We were the first ones to speak out the word 'bra' unapologetically on national TV. We empower the consumer with a lot of information, so she can make an informed choice, and understand the category deeper.    What Works  Vigour and passion that I can consistently transfer to my team.    What Needs More Work  Constant supply of self-motivation and proactiveness.      Lakshmikant (LK) Gupta  ,  Chief marketing officer, GirnarSoft Previously:  LG, Gillette, IMRB    The Shift  Heading marketing in a traditional consumer durable to marketing assignments in the startup space    Moment Of Truth:  4 years ago, in my previous organisation, I realised that digital is the medium of the future. But in that conventional corporate setup, business teams pushed back a lot on new digital initiatives simply due to inertia and the pressures of delivering the current month's numbers. It convinced me that as a marketing specialist I'd become redundant in five years if I didn't take the plunge into the online domain. A startup that was looking for a brand building professional was the most logical choice.    The Learning/Unlearning Process  An e-commerce company is constantly on the move. You experiment almost daily, learn and tweak as you go along with measurement done on the fly. This is very different from conventional consumer marketing where you execute and wait for weeks before learning the results and recalibrating. This puts your alertness regarding input-output equations at a different level altogether.    The online business demands a very direct correlation between spending and effectiveness, whether it be traffic, downloads or transactions. A marketer has to put away many intermediate measures like awareness, consideration etc in the short term and embrace solid demonstrable metrics.    Because an online startup does a lot of work in-house, I had to develop a much deeper understanding of digital marketing methods and tools than when agencies handled all the work.    Cross Learnings  Two words: Value proposition. Online startups focus so much on transactional messaging in day-to-day activities that a consistently applied brand proposition often takes a backseat. But an insightfully derived value proposition find its way into everything - that's the biggest cross-learning I could apply.    A structured process to ideate, plan and implement marketing initiatives is another cross-learning.    Biggest Challenge  You don't get a huge organisation to back you for systems and processes. In both redBus and GirnarSoft, I had to pretty much set up the marketing teams, define the brands' basics and start many new practices, both online and offline. The challenge was to do a lot of things with very small teams to begin with. And that with small budgets compared to what a large multinational brand works with. Thankfully, I like to roll up my sleeves and get my hands dirty. So, for many months I was working as the assistant brand manager-cum-social media manager-cum-CMO, even while building specialist teams to take on the responsibilities for the long term.       Picture: Lakshmikant Gupta   The Guide For Marketers Contemplating The Switch:  There must be complete alignment with the vision of the founder. The working style and priorities of the founder will determine how much you will achieve. Some are intrinsically very ambitious while others will be extremely efficiency-oriented. Don't go in assuming well-funded startups will splurge money on marketing.    Gaurav Nabh , Marketing director, Koovs Previously:  business head - Quasar, a GroupM agency and ITpreneurs - an IT Technology & Training Startup.    Moment Of Truth  Large/established businesses and brands work in a certain format and pattern, which though time-tested leave marginalized the ability to take risks and a pace of business that is moderate. In the startup world the speed/time to market is a given and problem solving is a must. That coupled with the excitement of building a brand, drew me to a start-up.    The Reason I Opted For E-Commerce  It is the e-commerce ecosystem that attracted me, which in India is at a nascent stage and thus has its own set of challenges and learnings. Specifically, Koovs because it is a vibrant young start-up brand that has built a cult-following and a high on fashion image for itself, with lot of growth potential. The task at hand here is to tell the brand story to a wider audience in a disruptive manner and be able to stand out in a cluttered market.    Where Startups Could Improve  Startup players tend to get lured by prospects of fast growth or get distracted with competition and their activities. Stay true to the business objective and focus on building a unique and differentiated brand position.      Picture: Gaurav Nabh   The Biggest Crisis  It's almost a daily crisis in a start-up, with ever-changing variables and market dynamics. The key to success, then is dependent on not losing sight of the larger business objective and goals.      Vivek Prabhakar & Shubhra Chadda Founder  - chef executive and co-founder of Chumbak    The Shift  (Vivek): Right from my first job, carving an identity for brands is what I have loved doing. While at my first job at Titan, I learnt the ropes and this experience set precedence for all my other roles over the years across many organisations; my pre-Chumbak traditional avatar was all about marketing.    Moment of Truth  Shubhra, my wife and I loved travelling and would take time out every year and venture to new places, bringing back souvenirs. One day, she was staring at our fridge adorned with magnets from all the places we had visited and that's when she had her moment of realisation - first, that the souvenir market in India was extremely boring and saturated and second, there aren't any Indian brands that represent the eccentricities and peculiarities of Indians and their realities.    Chumbak took off without the financial assistance of a VC, as we invested our own money to launch. In the initial weeks and months, we saw great traction and that's when we knew that we would need external money to propel the brand and to make it reach its potential. This is when VCs started showing interest. About two years later, after Chumbak was selling across the country, we received our first round of venture funding and this is when we entered the 'start-up environment'.    Cross Learnings  I worked in companies where I dealt with product development, merchandising and marketing. This experience definitely helped with understanding how to find vendors, suppliers, sourcing materials, quality checks, the right designers and so much more.    Word of Caution  I have seen a lot of start-ups launch and shut in very short durations. This happens for many reasons, but the one that stands out is that, people don't know how to manage money well and they tend to spend on what isn't imperative in the initial phase. I have seen many start-ups spend on large marketing campaigns, salaries, fancy offices and other overheads that can be compromised till the business starts generating revenue.      Picture: Vivek Prabhakar & Shubhra Chadda   The Biggest Crisis  Honestly, we haven't had a crisis so far. We take things as they come and have smart people to deal with potential crises.        

