URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/building-a-resilient-startup-to-weather-the-storm/articleshow/53782559.cms

Title : Building a resilient startup to weather the storm - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : startup investor,startup,Scalability,Entrepreneur,business strategy

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 11.47 AM IST

Document ID : 708

Content:
 By Krishnakumar Natarajan    A business idea is like a ship in the harbor - it appears safe, but gets tested only when it is venturing out to the open seas of the marketplace. While many things may appear stable in the harbor, the moment the sea faring captain takes the ship to the open seas, he encounters many situations he may not be exposed to nor has control on - just like an entrepreneur who is optimistic about his business idea, but in reality, not all market forces are under his control.     Like a ship that faces turbulent waters on its journey, businesses also go through cycles of upturns and downturns, and sometimes even risk facing a storm. However, what counts is the captain's ability to weather the storm through his resilience and confidence and overcome even the most challenging times. Likewise, startups too have to step into the unknown every day, which is why it becomes all the more important for business owners to build resilience to wade through the changing times of business.     As an entrepreneur, one cannot manage and survive any unfamiliar circumstances without resilience - an ineffable quality that refers to the ability to endure. Resilience means not giving up when faced by difficult circumstances and maintaining strength by what you have learned from your failures.     Building a startup is a voyage through crests and troughs of the ocean, and it will be your resilience and perseverance that will hold your startup together during challenging situations.     When building a resilient startup, it becomes imperative that you use your resources best to your advantage that will help attenuate the challenging situation. Here are few elements that an entrepreneur should always remember while developing the strategies for his startup to weather the changing business conditions and unforeseen circumstances.    Stuff will happen, and that is the truth    Regardless of your preparedness to ensure smooth sailing for your business, there is always probability of some hitches to occur that will disrupt your course of business. These hitches could be because of business reasons, as the market is not what you had anticipated to be.     Or, suddenly you find that your unique business idea has been outpaced by more nimble and better competitors that have more value proposition. Besides, market related challenges where the business or the customer needs change dramatically, you could also face much bigger challenges in terms of changing government regulatory environment. For instance, the regulatory hurdles being faced by cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber in the state of Karnataka. The key to face such unforeseen hurdles is to not lose confidence and find ways to solve the problems. One aspect that struggling entrepreneurs tend to overlook is to seek counsel from their mentors or domain experts. Particularly in case of regulatory challenges I think it would be best to take advice and counsel from both legal as well as domain experts on how to go about addressing them.    Investor perspective challenges    The investors who show their trust and finance your business idea have certain expectations from the venture. However, due to business uncertainties you might not be able to meet their expectations or the commitments about the growth and margins. This consequently leads to disappointed investors, which puts pressure on the entrepreneur and the startup on not meeting the performance criteria. It is important to re-emphasize and put in perspective that as investors have put in their money, they too are concerned about the business health and its growth. The case in point being of Housing.com, where the friction between the founder and the investors led to troubled times not only for the employees but also for the enterprise.     Rather than getting antagonistic about the investors and becoming adamant on your business strategy, it is important to listen to the stakeholders and the investors too, and arrive at an agreed viewpoint on what the company should do differently to manage the challenges and achieve the growth targets.    Building a scalable organization    Irrespective of the rate at which the organization is growing, it is important to put in place a strategic plan of building a scalable organization. The foundation of this is to build a diverse team. Most of the times entrepreneurs tend to be the jack of all trade in a startup, taking every decision and looking after all the functions. This model is viable at an entry-level startup stage, and as the business grows it becomes important to build and bring in external team that is aligned to your business and growth objectives. It is important to also evaluate your business capacity to determine that you are not over burdening your current employees. To avoid such a situation, determine key milestone points in your business revenue or customer growth where you will bring in additional employees to your team. Finally, build healthy partnerships with other businesses early on in your startup creation, as these will help in the growth of your business and open more market avenues.    Hire right people to build resilient organization culture    It is important that the founders spend time and effort in building the organizational culture that reflects the ethos for which the organization stands for. Building an organization culture is about having an articulated vision for the organization and its mission, and energizing the people around that vision and mission. When people are aligned to the organization's mission and vision, they are passionate about the business and the industry, which helps in bringing resilience against the tough times that the organization might face. It is the founder's responsibility to get the right people in his team and at times it is important to convince the right people to get them on-board. If they delegate this job to somebody else, then they will find a team which is misaligned, and that will be detrimental for the organization. By having investor's money in your account, you shouldn't spend it on hiring someone at a very high cost. Rather, hire a person who shows far more fire and desire to make things happen and make the company more successful.     By incorporating these elements in their business strategy, entrepreneurs can build a resilient startup, which will have the ability to recover quickly from challenging situations ranging from market uncertainties to changing government regulations to events such as employee departures or loss of company asset.    The author is Executive Chairman Mindtree. 

