URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/why-sips-may-still-be-the-right-way-to-invest-in-equity-mfs/articleshow/52233622.cms

Title : Why SIPs may still be the right way to invest in equity MFs - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Warren Buffett,US,systematic investment plan,SIPs,savings,Motilal Oswal,markets,Market,investment,invest,equity funds,earnings,debate

Date : May 09, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 851

Content:
 By Aashish P Somaiyaa    In the past few months, there has been a lot of debate on the efficacy of the systematic investment plan (SIP) as a method of investing in equity funds. It all started with reports that when the Nifty was down to about 6,800, SIPs with a substantial investing time horizon of 3-5 years, in some cases, were also showing negative returns.     Among other things, it was stated that one must not assume SIPs to be a panacea for investing pitfalls, and how some distributors, known as SIP sellers, should not be trusted. I found the entire debate rhetorical in nature. Here's why:     First of all, SIPs are not restricted to investing only in equity funds. So, if for some reason, SIPs in equity funds are showing not-so-great returns, it doesn't mean that the concept or the tool itself needs to be ditched. For instance, one can start an SIP even in a liquid fund in order to set up an emergency corpus of sorts from one's earnings.     Let's understand that SIPs serve a major purpose: enabling monthly savings, or monthly investments, as the case may be. This is because for a vast majority of us 'salaried' types, lump sum amounts rarely form a part of our cash flows. But there is always a monthly salary, monthly expenditure and then monthly savings /investments. As stated by the legendary Warren Buffett, it should be monthly earnings, monthly savings and, then, whatever is left, should account for monthly expenses. So, SIP is nothing but a tool to facilitate as small a saving as Rs 100 a month in a liquid fund, or investing in an equity fund in the absence of a sizeable lump sum.     Now let's come to the other purpose of SIPs in equity funds. The fact that equity is a highly volatile asset class, and timing is the holy grail of equity investing, it makes sense to invest bit by bit every month. Over short periods, while the markets can go in either direction, and there is a lot of volatility, over a longer period, the general movement of the market has been upward. So, SIPs in equity funds also serve the purpose of rupee cost averaging (by helping buy more units when the cost is low and less when the cost is high) during the shorter time frames of 3-5 years while allowing investors to benefit from the longer-term uptrend.     Equity as an asset class has probabilistic outcomes. For the very short-term, the probability of success is near zero and it can generate returns only over sufficiently long periods of time, 10-20 years, and that too if investments are made in quality businesses.     Look at how the market has behaved in the past three years. The bottom, in recent times, was found in September 2013, when the Nifty hit 5,200. From there, we saw a run up with general election results, formation of a majority government, and the ensuing excitement. We saw the Nifty at 9,000 in March 2015 and close to it in July-August 2015. All along— from 5,200 to 9,000—SIP investors were accumulating units on a monthly basis. As is evident, the average cost was moving upwards. The Nifty was between 7,500 and 9,000 for a good 20-plus months.     Till January 2016, it was around 8,000 and, then, suddenly, in a span of two months, we saw Nifty at 6,800. It's common sense that if most of your units are bought at average Nifty around 8,000 and you find the market tanking to 6,800, even SIPs cannot protect the decline in values. What they can do is ensure that the fall is less sharp than what you would have experienced had you invested a lump sum around closer to the Nifty peak of 9,000.     Also, your SIP ensured that while everyone panicked, you still had your own small SIP instalment landing up in the market— quite involuntarily—when Nifty was at 6,800. In February and March 2016, and data will bear me out, most 'sophisticated' investors were withdrawing funds from the market, only dumb SIPs were entering the market at mouth-watering index levels. So much for the sophistication of market timers and for the criticism of the concept of the SIP. Criticizing SIPs for giving low returns is quite ironic.     It is because equities are volatile and subject to sharp falls, one chooses to invest via SIPs. Yet, if SIPs in equity funds give poor returns, it is not the fault of the concept, it's to be blamed on the fact that SIP are being used for investing in equities. The very reason that equities can give poor returns, at times, prompts us to not invest in one go and instead opt for SIPs!     When markets are down and others are panicking, your SIP will bung in an instalment for you at the 'right' time and at any point, your fall will be lesser than that of an investor who invested a lump sum— timing the peak to perfection as it always happens! SIPs in equity funds should be compared with results of lump sum investment in equity funds. It's futile to compare returns from SIPs on an absolute basis or with a benchmark other than a lump sum equity investment.      (The author is MD and CEO at Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund) 

