URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/ceos-see-3-year-growth-cheer-for-india-inc/articleshow/53753656.cms

Title : CEOs see 3-year growth cheer for India Inc - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : India Inc,CEOs

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 01.44 PM IST

Document ID : 109

Content:
  MUMBAI: In what may be seen as a turning point in the collective sentiment of a large number of business leaders in India, a KPMG survey of CEOs has found the next three years to be "promising", both from the economic and organizational growth perspective. The report, which has been shared exclusively with TOI, highlights the views shared by around 125 CEOs from India, across sectors.     The report envisages significant business transformation in the next few years that can potentially drive up bottom lines. The findings reveal an optimistic side of India Inc (see graphic), which has been reeling under growth pressures.     According to KPMG, 94% of the CEOs surveyed are confident about India growing over the next 36 months, and almost 90% are confident about India growing over the next 12 months. 92% of the CEOs surveyed are confident about their company growing, both in short term and in midterm over next 3 years.     In an interview with TOI, Richard Rekhy, CEO, KPMG in India, said, "Both, the Indian business community and the global business community are bullish on India    as an investment destination. As compared to other countries, India faces relatively less number of issues and challenges. India is a largely untapped market and what is more exciting is a young population turning consumers."     Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, who sees India vying for "a gold or silver medal" on the podium in the future, said, "Business transformation tops the agenda of every CEO where they are reorienting the strategic template for M&A;, cost-effectiveness and leadership. The future is certainly bright for India."     This optimism on India's growth prospects is manifest in ITC's investment outlay of over Rs25,000 crore, Sanjiv Puri, COO, ITC, told TOI. The investment is in several projects, spanning all sectors of the economy from agriculture and manufacturing to services.     Indicating that government policies can make or mar a business, most CEOs view managing the regulatory environment as one of their biggest challenges. Puri, however, said doubling farmer incomes coupled with the proposed GST and stability in the tax regime should help in restoring consumption demand, which will trigger investments and be a force multiplier for the economy.     Over the last few weeks, Indian conglomerates in particular have undertaken organizational restructuring and this is one factor that comes out strongly in the report as well. Recently, the Tatas said they were disposing of an old fertilizer asset. The Aditya Birla Group, on the other hand, announced a complex merger scheme between two group companies.     CEOs have adopted a rather aggressive approach for growth, both organic and inorganic, with one in two envisaging an acquisition or merger in the near future.    However, if the economy has to kick-start, Rekhy said investments have to start flowing back by domestic companies. The challenge is large businesses are already stretched with limited borrowing capacities. Despite these challenges, Rekhy sees the economy bouncing back soon.     "This Diwali, we see India bouncing back in many ways. The monsoons are good. The MGNREGA money has gone into the economy and we will see the 7th Pay Commission money going back into the system. This will spur consumption. People, who want to buy white goods, would do so. Companies could post better third quarter sales growth," said Rekhy.  

