URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/india-smartphone-shipments-rise-in-2q-samsung-leads-idc/articleshow/53769262.cms

Title : India smartphone shipments rise in 2Q; Samsung leads: IDC - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Xiaomi,Vivo,South Asia,Smartphone,Samsung,Retail,Reliance Jio,Micromax,market share,iPhone,Intex,IDC,Gionee,Apple

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 02.47 AM IST

Document ID : 225

Content:
  NEW DELHI: After two consecutive quarters of falling shipments, India's smartphone market saw a revival of sorts with shipments rising by 17% sequentially in the April-June quarter, a stark contrast from the previous quarter when shipments shrank.     According to research firm IDC, India's smartphone shipments for the second quarter were at 27.5 million, up from 23.5 million shipped in the previous quarter, indicating an upward trend. Shipments had fallen by 8.2% sequentially in the first quarter of 2016.     IDC attributed the growth to aggressive device launches and updates by market leaders Samsung and Micromax.       "With the festive season approaching, the shipments are expected to hit the channel during end of July - September 2016. And hence, IDC expects shipments of both smartphone and feature phone to sequentially grow," the firm said Friday.     On-year growth however continued to be slow as the smartphone shipments rose a modest 3.7% in the June ended quarter, lower than the on-year 5.2% rise seen in the January-March quarter 2016.     The latest numbers underline the broad trend of slowing growth in the country's smartphone market compared to previous years. IDC also highlighted the rising sales of featurephones in the market, up 2.6% from last year to clock 33.7 million units in the June ended quarter.     Navkendar Singh, Senior Research Manager, Mobile Devices Research, IDC India and South Asia said, "The rate of migration from feature to smartphone has slowed down and feature phones continue to account for more than half of the total Indian mobile phone market."     Cautious spending behaviour of consumers clubbed with feature phone's continued relevance to the target customer's usage needs, vendors re-calibrating the channel to increase their share and relatively better margins with feature phones are some of the factors which are driving the volumes for feature phones, he added.     Much of the thunder seen in the June ended quarter's smartphone sales was taken by Chinese brands, that have expanded their share of the market.     "China-based vendors' shipments grew 28% over the previous quarter of which Lenovo group, Vivo, Xiaomi, OPPO and Gionee were key contributors driving the growth," Karthik J, Senior Market Analyst, Client Devices, at IDC India said. Each of the brands clocked a million units in the quarter.     Despite the rising threat from Chinese vendors, Samsung maintained its top position with a 25.1% market share in the smartphone segment, followed by Micromax at 12.9% and Lenovo at 7.7%.     The No 4 and 5 positions were taken by Intex with 7.1% share of the market and Reliance Lyf with 6.8% share.     Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani-owned Reliance LYF maintained fifth position with 12.3% sequential growth in the quarter, as it has entered sub $50 segment and by bundling introductory offers with Jio 4G services, helping it gain strong traction in retail stores.     "Aggressive entry of Reliance Jio with shipments of over a half a million 4G devices has captured significant share in sub $50 segment at the expense of other Indian vendor's share" Jaipal Singh, Market Analyst, Client Devices at IDC India said.     Chinese vendors also expanded their share to 33% in the Rs 20,000 upwards segment, from 9% a year ago, at the cost of Apple whose iPhone SE failed to make any significant impact while its previous generation iPhone 5S continued to contribute majority volume.  

