URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//it-always-helps-to-be-located-in-a-startup-hub-like-koramangla-vivek-prakash-co-founderhackerearth/articleshow/51580025.cms

Title : It always helps to be located in a startup hub like Koramangla: Vivek Prakash, co-founder, HackerEarth - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vivek Prakash,Sachin Gupta,Motorola,Income Tax,HackerEarth,Google,Funding,Entrepreneurship,convergence

Date :  Mar 28, 2016, 10.27 AM IST

Document ID : 410

Content:
     With an aim to to build a system which is a completely meritocratic system and uses an objective measure to evaluate a developer's technical skill, HackerEarth was launched by Sachin Gupta and Vivek Prakash. Sharing his experiences, co-founder    Vivek Prakash    talks about his entrepreneurial journey with    Nivedita Mishra    .     When did you start HackerEarth and how did this idea click? What was the vision behind HackerEarth?    The seeds for HackerEarth were laid when we were in college itself. This dates back to December of 2011; it was the campus placement season at IIT Roorkee.     There was a friend of ours, who was top of the batch, and contrary to what everyone was expected, he wasn't hired by any of the top companies. This came as a shock to us, because he was definitely one of the best programmers in our batch and the kind of person any top company would jump to hire. We realised that the problem was not with this candidate but the way coding abilities of any developer is measured today.    Programming is one of the most measurable skill, yet pedigree and work experience continues to be the deciding factor to evaluate a person's technical skill sets. Motivated by this incident, we decided to build a system which is a completely meritocratic system and uses an objective measure to evaluate a developer's technical skill. As a result, we decided to build HackerEarth a community of developers, where developers can solve problems to improve their programming skills, participate in challenges/hackathons, network with other developers, showcase their profile based on their actual programming skills and get the jobs they deserve.    Tell us something about yourself?    I am a programmer at heart and since co-founding HackerEarth, I have donned the role of a CTO. I am a dual degree holder in computer sciences from IIT Roorkee, where I met Sachin and co-founded HackerEarth from dorm rooms. I have also been a part of Google Summer of Code program and headed the Information Management Group at IIT Roorkee.    How has been the journey so far, given that the startups face a number of challenges in the beginning?    The biggest challenge in the coming years is going to be scaling our hub of programmers and keeping them engaged on HackerEarth. The stronger the hub, the easier the business operations. Everything stems from the hub and scaling it across the world is going to be the biggest challenge.    What are your key learning from running HackerEarth    Hiring right people is the key - From the very first day the biggest challenge is to hire the right people. As the company starts scaling you realise that more and more work starts to be delegated to people outside the core founding team, and you need to hire the people who are as zealous about the work as you are. It's fairly easy to create a good culture when there are only five people in the team, but the real challenge comes when you scale beyond, maintaining the company culture is now, not in only your hands but also depends on your team.     Setting goals and being metrics driven - Start-ups by their very definition are chaotic. Things are highly unpredictable and the course of the company changes on a daily basis. Amidst all this chaos and dynamic state of affairs, it's highly imperative to have a set of short term and long terms goals consistently measure the overall progress against the targets that are set.     Thinking big - The toughest challenge among of all of them is to think big every stage of the company. It's very easy to become complacent after you raise your big round of funding, or you start hitting a steady monthly revenue but what's important is to constantly break out of your comfort zone and do things that scales the organization, even if it means doing things that are uncomfortable.    How do you think that the Prime Minister's startup policy is going to help the existing and new entrepreneurs joining the league?    The startup policy created by the Prime Minister is a very welcome step towards encouraging entrepreneurship and building a healthy startup ecosystem. Some steps like no income tax for startups in their first three years, relaxation in certain compliances, creation of a startup fund etc will be very helpful for new entrepreneurs.     In general, the startup policy represents a change in the government's view towards startups. It's encouraging to see that the government is recognizing the potential of startups to add to a nation's economy. This sets a positive climate and will set precedents for more startup friendly initiatives in the future.    Why did you chose to set up your venture in Koramangala?    Koramangala is a hub and lots of startups are based out of here. Also the casual work environment here pulls you up.    Do you have clients from Koramangala?    Lots of startups are in koramangala and a lot of them are our customers. Lookup, Verse (newshunt) are among them.    How has been the response from Koramangala, as a lot of startups are based in there?    We have high adoption from early stage startups and a lot of them are in Koramangala. It always helps to be located in the startup hub of India.    What is the market size of this sector that you are tapping?    With the world moving towards technology aided solutions, the need for developers is only going to increase. A recent survey about the tech industry says that only 19 percent of all tech requirements are being fulfilled by online services. This includes giants like LinkedIn.     This is indicative of a very large opportunity in an already massive industry. I think this market is getting crowded solely on the size of the opportunity and this is only going to increase in the near future. However, the players who last are the ones who execute well, who can adapt to changing requirements and who can be consistent with results.     Hackerearth's niche will be the ability for people to find great programmers. We believe that it can done effectively through our homegrown community model and in the future, we will continue to replicate that across various categories within the developer ecosystem.    How many developers have you got placed and what is your placement percentage?    3-4 hires/challenge, 10 hiring challenges/month. Hit rate is 1/5.    How do you stand out from your competitors and what is your USP?    The only strategy that works for taking on competition is focus on execution. Competitors will always come and go, but users come to you only once and hence it's imperative to have a laser sharp focus on building a world class product for the users and ensure they have a good experience.     And this is our strategy too; our complete focus is on building a highly engaged hub of programmers. Once the programmers believe HackerEarth provides them a value that no one else does, we don't need to worry about competition. Apart from this, constant innovation is also essential to have loyal users. You need to consistently increase the value that you provide to your users, so they always have a reason to come back to you.    How many corporate clients do you have at present? Do you have clients abroad too?    HackerEarth lists WalmartLabs, Intuit, Citrix, Adobe, and ThoughtWorks, as well as upcoming startups such as Druva, CodeNation, Practo, and Capillary among its clients. We have companies from Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand who use HackerEarth for various functions including recruiting and assessment. Companies including ThoughtWorks, 2359 media, Zalora, Lazada, The Software Practice, Catch That Bus, SkyScanner SG, BNP Paripas, PropertyGuru, Motorola, Veritrans are our customers from these countries.    How has been your growth trajectory?    HackerEarth has grown from an idea between two friends in a dorm room, to a disruptive company. We started in 2012 as a programming hub that provides recruitment platform for technical hiring. We have been aggressively growing in the last 12 months. In this time period we have grown our team to 80+ people, more than doubled our user base and grew our revenues 5X.    What are your future plans for HackerEarth? Do you plan to expand to other cities too in the near future?    We're aiming to be the largest platform for developers. Our aim is to add over a million more programmers to this hub this year and sustain the current high levels of engagement. We will also be actively reaching out to programmers from other countries for this, especially in South East Asia, Europe and North America.     In the future, we see HackerEarth as the largest platform for developers; a convergence point for different kinds of developers; a place that can benefit millions of programmers and programming aspirants in the world. In terms of metrics, this means adding more overseas programmers to our hub, catering for different kinds of programmers through learning materials and activities and providing more jobs in different parts of the world. The company has grown to employ over 80 people. It is looking to double its operations and will be expanding to Pune, Mumbai and Delhi in 2016.    

