URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/policy/sebi-proposes-new-framework-for-algo-trading/articleshow/53560259.cms

Title : Sebi proposes new framework for algo trading - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Securities and Exchange Board of India,algo

Date :  Aug 06, 2016, 12.57 AM IST

Document ID : 483

Content:
  MUMBAI: The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has proposed measures that aim to ensure algorithmic trading and colocation don't give market participants an unfair advantage over those with no access to such technology. If implemented, the Indian regulator will be among the first to rein in such practices.     "The academic literature... indicates that algorithmic trading may have accentuated the issues of adverse selection costs for non-algorithmic traders and increased probability of 'flash crashes' vis-a-vis the situation in the pre-algo / pre-colocation era," Sebi said in a discussion paper posted on its website Friday, seeking public comments by August 31. "Fair, transparent and non-discriminatory access is one of the key pillars of a safe and vibrant capital market."        The measures being considered include a minimum resting time for orders, speed bumps to delay order matching, randomization of orders and review of tick-by-tick data among others. Computer algorithms and colocation—placing servers as close as possible to the heart of the exchange—lead to trades being executed at a rapid rate. The regulator wants to introduce measures that would act as speed breakers.     "Currently, more than 80% of the orders placed on most of the exchange traded products are generated by algorithms and such orders contribute to approximately 40% of the trades on the exchanges," Sebi said. Several market participants have adopted algorithmic trading as it provides speed, control and anonymity to the end-user, it said. This has also enabled traders to generate large order volumes in a small interval of time. High-frequency trading (HFT) is a sub-set of algorithmic trading.     Sebi's move is aimed at bringing parity between institutional investors that use such methods and those who don't have access to such sophisticated technology, experts said.     Regulators across the globe are debating such curbs. "Sebi is examining various options to allay the fear and concern of unfair and inequitable access to the trading systems of the exchanges," it said.     Brokers said any attempts to curb trading speeds would impact the development of the market and some high-frequency traders may exit.     "We have to keep changing our processes but any move which will hamper the latency or reduce the speed of trading will affect traders who are doing arbitrage trading," said Praveen Gupta, CEO of Symphony Fintech, an automated trading systems provider. "Now people will have to come up with new trading methods so that this doesn't affect their profitability."     The proposal on minimum resting time mechanism has not been mandated by any regulator globally. This is defined as the time between an order being received by the exchange and allowed to be modified or cancelled.     The regulator has also proposed frequent batch auctions. Exchanges currently deploy the continuous-matching system in which buy and sell orders received by an exchange are continuously matched and trades then take place. Frequent batch auctions would lead to the accumulation of buy and sell orders for a particular length of time, say 100 milliseconds. At the end of every such period, the exchange would match orders received during the interval, thus negating the advantage of superfast machine-based systems.     This proposal tries to address the problem of "latency advantage" by undertaking batch auctions at a particular interval. The idea is that this should be short enough to allow for intraday price discovery but long enough to minimize the latency advantage of HFT to a large extent, Sebi said.     The measures suggested include:     - Minimum resting time for orders     - Frequent batch auctions     - Random speed bumps or delays in order processing / matching     - Randomization of orders received during a period (say 1-2 seconds)     - Maximum order message-to-trade ratio requirement     - Separate queues for colocation orders and non-colocation orders     - Review of tick-by-tick data feed  

