URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/top-5-champions-that-can-strike-gold-for-you-over-the-next-1-year/articleshow/53752421.cms

Title : Top 5 champions that can strike gold for you over the next 1 year - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stock market,Sensex,Petronet LNG Ltd.,Nifty50,Just Dial Ltd.,June quarter,InterGlobe Aviation,Gold,Godrej Consumer Products Ltd.,Godrej Consumer,FIIS,earnings,Coffee Day Enterprises

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 01.50 PM IST

Document ID : 283

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Can stocks strike gold?     The domestic equity market has already rallied over 7 per cent so far in 2016, but certain stocks have more than doubled investor wealth in the same period.     The stock market is already trading at valuations that are largely in line with long-term averages. However, a correction or some consolidation could come in if global inflows slow down. The Nifty50 trades at a PER of 18.2 times August 2017 earnings, in line with the last ten-year average PER.     "With an earnings of Rs 440.5, the Nifty50 is trading at a PER of 18.2 times one-year forward. The last 10-year average has been at 18.2 times, leaving very little upside," Prabhudas Lilladher said in a report.     Domestic stocks are also trading at a 27 per cent premium to the MSCI Asia (excluding Japan) valuations, a discount to the 10-year average of 33 per cent.     Foreign institutional investors' (FIIs) relatively overweight positioning on India is likely to continue as it stands out as a growth economy among the emerging markets.     After the recent rally of over 20 per cent from the lows, the upside for the market remains limited till the time there is a bounceback in earnings growth. Investors can use dips to enter quality midcap and smallcap stocks to ride India's growth story.     "June quarter earnings have been a mixed bag so far and we are trading at over 18.5 times FY17 earnings, which is a reasonably good valuation," Ritu Gangrade Arora, CIO, Canara HSBC OBC Life Insurance, said in an interview with ETNow.     "It is reasonable for the market to take a pause after the recent rally, which was driven by strength in the domestic economy and abundant liquidity flow from FIIs. A pause or consolidation is welcome, which will give us opportunities to build positions," she said.     Global brokerage firms such as Deutsche Bank, Citigroup in separate notes to clients have given buy recommendations on the following top five stocks after their June quarter earnings:       JustDial: Buy | Target price Rs 1,000    Deutsche Bank has maintained a buy recommendation on JustDial post-June quarter results with a 12-month target price of Rs 1000.     The June quarter results were disappointing, but continuous improvement in operating metrics is a clear positive. The stock has already fallen over 30 per cent in the last three months and going forward sustained momentum in JD Omni-license sales can provide further upside.     The global investment bank expects JD Omni to contribute 3-8 per cent of revenues over FY17-19. It expects the company to deliver earnings CAGR of 59 per cent over FY17-19, Deutsche Bank said in a report.    Coffee Day Enterprises: Buy | Target price Rs 280    Citigroup maintains a buy recommendation on Coffee Day enterprises posts the June quarter results with a 12-month target price of Rs 280. The vending and exports have done better than the key coffee business.     The average sales per day (ASPD) numbers have been lower than expected. The global investment bank has raised revenues estimates by 6-8 per cent driven by vending and exports. The margins are lowered given the revised mix, and near-term investments.    Godrej Consumer: Buy | Target price Rs 1,800    IIFL maintains a buy recommendation on Godrej Consumer post the June quarter results with a 12-month target price of Rs 1,800.     In a challenging macro environment in most of the geographies of its operations, Godrej Consumer clocked 9 per cent sales growth in both its domestic and international businesses.     Inorganic growth accounted for just 1 per cent of FY16 consolidated turnover. Input cost deflation resulted in net profit growth of 28 per cent compared with a FY11-15 average of 22 per cent.     "The pace of innovation slowed down in a subdued demand environment, but we expect it to pick-up in FY17. Moreover, this year will see GCPL pursue new growth avenues in international geographies," said the brokerage note.    InterGlobe Aviation: Buy | Target price Rs 1,100    Citigroup upgraded InterGlobe Aviation post the June quarter results to buy from neutral earlier with a 12-month target price of Rs 1,100.     The global investment bank upgraded the stock to buy as the competition has eased. And, given the fact that the stock has corrected in the past 2 quarters it is now trading at near IPO levels. The global investment bank is of the view that the expectations have been reset.     It sees attractive entry points now although September is generally a seasonally weak quarter. But, given asset-light structure, Citigroup believes that the company will have 145 net aircraft by end FY18.    Petronet LNG: Buy | Target price Rs 362    Citigroup maintains a buy rating on Petronet LNG post June quarter results and has also raised its target price to Rs 362 from Rs 334 earlier.     The commissioning of part facilities of Dahej terminal is ahead of company's original guidance which came as a positive surprise. Conservatively, the investment bank accounted for enhanced capacity from that terminal only from FY18E.     Early completion of expansion could help Petronet capture market share in the near-term. The global investment bank raised FY17E Ebitda/PAT by 13 per cent and 14 per cent respectively to factor in additional 1.4 MMT of volumes in the year.     (  Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.  )  

