URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/rsi-shows-over-40-stocks-trading-at-overbought-levels-should-you-sell/articleshow/53752539.cms

Title : RSI shows over 40 stocks trading at overbought levels; should you sell? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zee Learn,Tata Power,Tata Chemicals,Sun TV,stocks,RSI,ONGC,NMDC,IGL,Hindustan Zinc,BF Utilities,Atlanta

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 12.13 PM IST

Document ID : 834

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The S&P; BSE Sensex surged over 200 points in mid-morning trade on Thursday, but over 40 stocks just crossed over to the overbought territory on Wednesday on strong volumes as reflected in the relative strength index, popularly known as RSI.     The Nifty50 was trading just below its crucial resistance level of 8,700 at the time of writing of this report.     Almost 41 stocks on the BSE have just crossed an RSI level of 70, which signals overbought status and chances of a correction or consolidation in these stocks.     The RSI is one indicator which is used by analysts to determine whether an asset class is in the oversold or overbought territory. If the indicator shows a value less than 30, it indicates that the stock, or the index, is in the oversold territory, while a reading of more than 70 suggests an overbought status.     Among the stocks trading around an RSI of 70 are ONGC, SBI, Atlanta, NMDC, HOEC, BF Utilities, Tata Power, Biocon, ZEE Learn, Sun TV, Tata Chemicals, UPL, Hindustan Zinc and IGL.         Technical indicators are used by analysts as well as investors to generate buy and sell signals. They are separated into two main types - leading and lagging.     "Leading indicators precede price movements of a security giving predictive qualities, while relative strength index (RSI) and the stochastics oscillators are among the most used leading indicators," Abnish Kumar Sudhanshu, Director & Research Head, Amrapali Aadya Trading & Investments, told ETMarkets.com.     A leading indicator is strongest during periods of sideways or non-trending trading ranges, while lagging indicators are considered more useful during trending periods.     "For example the RSI, which varies between zero and 100, signals overbought condition when it is above 70 and oversold condition when it is below 30," he said.     The RSI is more popularly used to identify divergence between a scrip and an index and also to spot overbought and oversold levels.     This is a mechanical interpretation as stocks based on their strength define their own overbought and oversold levels. This is true when the momentum is strong and the stock keeps on trading at overbought levels.     Analysts said given the fact that the overall momentum is showing signs of weakness, a cautious approach should be taken towards these stocks. Before initiating a trade, investors should use other indicators along with RSI to confirm the trend.     If the RSI is approaching 70 and the stock price is falling, there is always a possibility of a trend reversal from that level.     "A bearish pattern on the price chart accompanied by a negative divergence in the overbought area of the RSI chart may act as some sort of self-confirmation of an impending downfall," Mazhar Mohammad, Chief Strategist - Technical Research & Trading Advisory, Chartviewindia.in, told ETMarkets.com.     "If there is a sell signal on the RSI chart, then one needs to look for confirmation from other technical indicators for better success rate in trading. Only when other indicators suggest bearishness, a trade needs to be initiated in that direction," he explained.  

