URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/happy-at-work-new-age-firms-tempt-staff-with-foosballtable-library-open-kitchen/articleshow/53483741.cms

Title : Happy at work: New-age firms tempt staff with foosball
table, library, open kitchen - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Work culture,open kitchen,Fashion firm,Bestseller India,Bestseller

Date : Aug 01, 2016, 01.26 PM IST

Document ID : 281

Content:
 From a minimalistic design to dedicated recreation spaces, fashion firm Bestseller is on a mission to create happiness in the workplace.   No sticky situations   "We wanted to create an environment that encourages collaboration, socialisation and general happiness in the workplace. While I do have a designated cabin, every day I find myself working out of different departments.     This allows me to know each individual that's part of the Bestseller family closely. We have a fun work culture here. We wish members of the team on their birthday by sticking notes on their desks or cabins."  -Vineet Gautam, Country Head, Bestseller India     Picture: BCCL   Time out   "The ping-pong and foosball table, library and open kitchen, ensure impromptu happy hours. According to me, this is what drives creativity. I appreciate this freedom as it is also integral to our brand's philosophy. It just feels like a home away from home."  -Aditya Nadkarni, Brand Head, JACK&JONES; India     Picture: BCCL   A collective view   "I love the ONLY showroom, as it gives us the opportunity to look through the entire season's collection and take necessary decisions. It's also a great representation of the brand for external visitors and gives us a sense of pride. We are a brand catering to the fashion needs of the youth, and hence, the presence of social media logos."  -Sugam Asani, Brand Head, ONLY India     Picture: BCCL   Thinking space   "I love the fifth floor, which serves as a break zone where you can relax with a cup of coffee, eat or play. It is my go-to zone, every time I need to get some thinking done."  -Mrithyunjay Amblimath, Head (Operations), Bestseller     Picture: BCCL 

