URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/opinion/interviews/The-campaign-against-human-rights-violations-will-continue-Aakar-Patel/articleshow/53789807.cms

Title : The campaign against human rights violations will continue: Aakar Patel - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Kashmiri Pandits,FIR,BJP,amnesty,ABVP,Aakar Patel

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.21 AM IST

Document ID : 965

Content:
  After an event called "Broken Families", on human rights violations by armed forces in Kashmir, was held by Amnesty International India in Bengaluru last week, the ABVP filed a complaint of sedition against the nonprofit.     In an interview with  ET  , Amnesty International India's executive director  Aakar Patel  explains what the event was actually about and why the charges of sedition against the organisation are baseless.    What's the status of the ABVP's complaint against Amnesty?   We have a copy of the FIR, and the complaint doesn't name Amnesty in the body text, but the FIR does. We are surprised at how that happened. We also believe the complaint was wrongly filed because it has factual errors.      We are cooperating with the police. We have submitted the video of the event to them. We had also invited the police to the event and they had three cameras at the event, so there's a bunch of video evidence.    A BJP spokesperson said filing an FIR doesn't amount to much. Would you agree?   My personal opinion on this is based on some of the judgments I have seen. It leads me to believe that sedition should not have been part of the FIR. What was required was a preliminary investigation.    What was the focus of the Amnesty event 'Broken Families'?   Amnesty has been conducting research for over 50 years and the way we treat human rights is through evidence. For three years, we researched a report on Kashmir, the basis of which was as follows: since 1989, the Kashmir police have registered FIRs and investigated and filed charge sheets also in cases involving individuals from the Indian Army. These have been sent to the Centre for approval for prosecution in a civil court, which is possible by lifting Section 7 of the AFSPA.     There is a mechanism within the AFSPA whereby the Centre can approve these prosecutions. But since 1989, not a single prosecution has been approved. So the families that have been affected by this have not received any form of closure. We were campaigning on their behalf. We were saying those who had been chargesheeted should be dealt with the way the Centre saw fit. That was the basis of the event.     We had released the report last year, before which we sent it to the army but they did not respond. We added a couple of elements, like music and a play, and we also invited Kashmiri Pandits to talk about their plight.    Why were Kashmiri Pandits invited if the focus was human rights violations by army?   The campaign was about widening the focus to human rights. It was part of the narrative: that human rights violations also happened in the case of the families who were asked to leave.     The state is responsible not only in answering to those families whose cases have been sent to the Centre, but also for the rehabilitation of those who have been sent away from the Valley. The separation is there but there is a link as well.    There was police presence at the event. Did they intervene?   We felt it was an event that needed to be managed, which is why we reached out to the police. If you look at what happened, the issue was not the panel discussion but what happened in the audience.     It was an open event. I was told that some ABVP members started a shouting match with the audience at the end of the event. It didn't seem necessary for the police to intervene at that time, though I suppose the police can answer that best. It seems to me that they didn't think anything criminal had happened at that time.    Did you think the charge of sedition is ludicrous?   I don't think the charge is justified at all and I don't think it should have been mentioned in the FIR. The manner in which the FIR was filed with factual errors was also wrong — there are many levels at which we have been treated very unfairly.    Do you see it as hypocritical that the Congress, who was up in arms against sedition in the JNU incident, has not said much this time?   Well, we have never looked at political support. Our work is based on evidence and fact-finding, which we put up to the state, and expect the state to act on it. Political parties have the freedom to support or not support causes as they see fit.     I don't expect them to stand behind us. But I do expect everybody, including political parties, to look at facts and the reputation and work of the organisation that's decades old before they decide it's this, that or the other. I think there's a lot of talk, which doesn't really fit into the reality of what Amnesty as an organisation is and what its legacy is. Five decades of work and a Nobel Prize don't come easily.    Is the home ministry investigating foreign funding in Amnesty India?   Certain media reports have been conflating two things, which is a mistake. There is the Amnesty India office and another South Asia office operating out of London. We wanted to move that to India.     We do our own fundraising in India, we have got around 120 people on the streets doing that. But the South Asia office wanted to raise funds — that was the application under the FCRA [Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act]. It wasn't an FCRA application for the India office.    What were the highlights of the report on Kashmir, which was the basis of the event?   We went to Kashmir, spoke to survivors and victims in the cases that had been sent — there were approximately four dozen cases. They were very moving stories of how there was no response to the crime, no acknowledgement. The Indian state, at the level of the Jammu and Kashmir government, has registered the complaint of someone who is a victim, but it has not responded to the complaint in the way it is obliged to, to a citizen of this country.     To me, that's a very disturbing fact and a democracy should be responsible to its citizens. It cannot look away when an investigation has been conducted and a chargesheet filed. There is evidence that has been sent to the Centre, to ignore it is not right. I don't believe there are two sides to this story and I don't believe that anybody who hears what we have to say through the report will disagree with what we are saying.    Will you continue to have such events?   The campaign will continue but in what form and when the events will take place, we will need to consider.  

