URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//market-conditions-create-promising-sectors/articleshow/11945093.cms

Title : Market conditions create promising sectors - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : reserve bank of india,market correction,investors,information Technology,Banking

Date :  Feb 19, 2012, 07.21 AM IST

Document ID : 432

Content:
      The third quarter results season has come to an end with most of the front-runner companies having published their results. The markets have been in a bullish momentum since the beginning of this year. Therefore, investors need to be cautious in the markets, especially on stocks and sectors that have not performed well in this results season.             There are promising sectors that investors can consider for their portfolio during a market correction phase, as the markets have run-up quite sharply during the last couple of months.             Here are some:        Auto        The outlook for the auto sector is quite positive for the current year as the expectations of monetary easing is a positive for the sector. The consumer sentiments remain positive, especially in the middle income segment.             The sales have had a dip towards the end of last year. However, auto companies are expecting a revival in            growth this year on the back of new launches and expectations of monetary softening in the near future.            Investors with a mediumterm horizon can invest in leading auto companies during correction phases.        Banking        The last quarter's results of leading banks remained quite impressive. With inflation coming down to comfortable levels, there are expectations of further monetary easing by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in the near future. This will help in higher credit off-take as well as easing margin pressures on banks.             Going forward, the differentiating factor will be the strategies adopted by banks to increase their non-interest based income and control their non-performing assets (NPA).             The banking sector stocks had a sharp rally in the recent market run-up . Analysts believe the investment potential is attractive in banking stocks. Long-term investors can use corrections in banking stocks to enter or accumulate fundamentallygood stocks.       FMCG        The performance of FMCG companies has been quite good last year. FMCG companies could hike prices of their products in the markets . The consumer sentiment is expected to remain good in the coming months and large players with diversified product offering in the FMCG sector are expected to do well.        Information technology        The performance of IT sector companies has been quite good during the last quarter on the back of a weak rupee. The IT sector stocks have had a good run-up . Analysts advise caution while investing in IT firms due to the rupee appreciation in the current quarter and ongoing uncertainty in the European markets.        Public sector undertakings        The top public sector undertakings (PSU) are good for long-term investors due to their sound business models and fundamentals. The performance of these PSUs has been good in the recent quarters. Also, the markets are expecting high dividends from these stocks in the near term due to government pressure to mop up funds in order to reduce the overall fiscal deficit.             Long-term investors can invest in leading PSU stocks systematically at regular intervals.        Pharma        The outlook for pharma companies is positive for the medium term, driven by growing preference of generics , opportunities generated by expiring patents as well as weak currency. Analysts believe the margins will improve due to growing demand for generics, increase in capacity utilisation and weak currency.             Investors can go for frontrunner pharma sector stocks with a medium to long-term perspective.    

