URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//spas-koramangalas-wellness-industry-growing-at-a-breakneck-pace/articleshow/12922443.cms

Title : Spas: Koramangala's wellness industry growing at a breakneck pace - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : wellness industry,spas,Spa Association of India,Koramangala,Fountains Spa

Date :  Apr 29, 2012, 04.59 PM IST

Document ID : 416

Content:
      KORAMANGALA: Koramangala's wellness industry is growing at a breakneck pace with city spas seeing an increase in business up to 15-20 percent in profits every year. With a lot of IT professional either working or residing here, day spas have their appointment registers packed.        DESTRESSING IT SECTOR        "The spa market is under-penetrated. Hence the market has space to accommodate several brands. However, to counter competition, we focus on our consumers, mainly those living in the neighbourbood; who are open to distressing spa procedures," said Sunil Rao, marketing director, The Four Fountains Spa.             "We service working professionals, self-employed or housewives in the age bracket of 25-45 years. They are interested in their health and look to reduce stress," he added. Four Fountains was started in Koramangala 5th block on September 2011. Since then the number of clients has increased three fold. They also have a branch at Jayanagar.             Foreigners who come on assignments for a short period also form a major part of the clientele. As they want to experience the authentic Ayurvedic therapies and other Indian healing traditions.        TRAINED STAFF        These spas have a staff of around 20 and are trained in their internal training academy. "Our Koramangala team has 15 people: twelve therapists, two guest health counsellors and one spa manager. We have an internal training academy in Pune where all our team members are trained rigorously before being allowed to practice at the spa," said Rao.             IT IS mandatory that the staff should have at least a diploma certificate in spa therapy.        UNBRIDLED FUTURE GROWTH        According to the Spa Association of India, the Indian spa industry with over 2,300 spas generates around $400 million annually and over 700 spas are expected to open in the next five years. Koramangala alone has nearly 20 spas and with more IT professionals settling in, there is a huge scope for both the existing and new players in this sector.             While India is known for medical spas, hotel spas, resort spas and destination spas, this part of the city mainly houses day spas. The Beautique women's salon & spa, started in 2007 is a day spa that chose Koramangala as it was developing then.             "The area is flooded with spas today, resulting in tight competiton. The only way to stand out is to provide quality service and product. We have a year-overyear growth of around 10-12 per cent," said Latha, owner, The Beautique. They mainly cater to the middle and upper middle class charging between Rs 600 and Rs 2,000, depending on the treatment ordered.             Chisel spa in 6th block has been around for five years, now gets a turnover of around Rs 4 lakh per month and make a profit of 40 percent today. "Koramangala being the heart of the city generates the maximum profit among our various branches," said Biju.    

