URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/plan/what-it-takes-to-win-an-olympic-gold-in-your-career/articleshow/53682285.cms

Title : What it takes to win an Olympic gold in your career - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Win,profession,Olympic,Gold,Champions

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 361

Content:
  Olympic Champions are like aliens if you compare your daily life and routine to theirs. Champions across sports may have different skills—agility, speed, strength—but have similar traits that help them reach world domination. Check to see what you have in common with them that will help you achieve dazzling success in your profession of choice.    Do you have written goals?   At present participating in his fifth Olympics, Phelps would write down three specific target swimming timings for each season of practice. He would then focus all his training and efforts towards achieving them. Do you have the habit of writing down your challenging time-bound goals broken down to daily/weekly/monthly segments? Get up each morning, look at your written goals and build a to-do list for the day that advances you. Like champions, your food, sleep and daily effort and pain is part of the detailed plan to reach your goals.     "I won't predict anything historic. But nothing is impossible."   Michael Phelps  , most successful champion of all time with 22 swimming golds and counting    Do you have ridiculous self-belief?   Muhammad Ali exuded immense confidence both inside and outside the ring. Like other Olympic champions, the confidence was built upon huge physical preparation and practice, experience of high pressure bouts and match visualisation. Are you self-aware enough to know where you stand in your career, and then build upon your self-belief by investing in learning, earning experiences and constant positive visualisation? Such self-belief becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy bringing focus and resources required to achieve excellence at work.     "He who is not courageous enough to take risks will accomplish nothing in life."   Muhammad Ali  , boxing legend and 1960 gold medalist    Do you love people?   Aries Merritt (110 m hurdles gold medalist in 2012) lost both kidneys in 2013. People who volunteered to donate theirs included his family, other athletes, coach and massage therapist—a measure of his support structure. He went on to prepare for 2016 with his sister's kidney. Being an Olympic champion or achieving world class success in your career requires immense amount of support from your social and personal network. A positive personality, empathy and willingness to connect with family, friends and supporters gets you that bonding and support. Your people then also hold you accountable for your dreams and push you to perform.     "I have to show who I am, play with the crowd, play with the camera. When people come to a race, part of it is the anticipation, 'What is he going to do?"'   Usain Bolt  , fastest human ever and 100m gold medalist in 2008 and 2012    Do you have no Plan B?   Matt Grevers (4 swimming golds in 2008 and 2012) did not qualify for 2016 Olympics coming third in the US trials despite posting an Olympic silver medal timing. Like most Olympic champions, he has to figure out a new career while dealing with his unexpected loss. Are you also able to work towards glory without a contingency plan? And then be able to deal with failure when it comes? Not having a backup enables you to dare greatly, focus fully and devote all your resources to be the best. Simultaneously, the ability to accept failure and rebound quickly is essential to stay alive and functional.     "I've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why I succeed."   Michael Jordan  , basketball great and gold medalist in 1984 and 1992    Do you seek work-life balance?   Michael Phelps while working towards the 2004 Olympics, took a total of four days off from his training schedule in four years, swimming 80 km every week to six gold medals. Work-life balance is clearly not a question that champions deal with. Do you enjoy your career enough that the question ceases to matter and you are able to spend months and years practising and improving? When you like and choose your profession, you can get comfortable with the pain and effort and yet maintain the motivation to excel over extended periods.     "Nothing can substitute for plain hard work."   Andre Agassi  , tennis gold in 1996    Are you coachable?   Every person is coachable only to the extent his ego permits. But Olympic champions are exceptionally coachable, subsuming their egos to benefit from the inputs of multiple coaches. Can you be a constant learning machine like an Olympic champion? Creating and learning from coaches and mentors shortens your learning curve and enables you to fast track to excellence.     'The key is not the will to win. Everybody has that. It is the will to prepare to win that is important.'   Bobby Knight  , basketball coach USA, gold 1984    Do you meditate?   In 2008, Abhinav Bindra was tied with his opponent going into the gold medal shot of the 10m air rifle. He shot a 10.8 for the gold while his opponent crumbled under the immense pressure scoring only 9.7. Can you meditate too like Olympic champions? Winners learn to control their thoughts, switch off their minds at will, compartmentalise and focus on the moment. They set up preperformance rituals to get into the zone where they are calm and deliver a relaxed top performance.     "Live in the present."   Mark Spitz  , nine swimming golds, 1968 and 1972    Do you turn a deaf ear?   Dara Torres is a swimmer who won four golds and 12 medals across five Olympics from 1984 to 2008. Considered too old to swim at 41, she set world records while qualifying for 2008 and ended with a silver. Olympic champions know to shut their ears against criticism, against the competition and focus only on doing their best. Like them, your chances of success are higher when you focus not on the goal but on being the best you can in your career without heeding what the world says. Be ready to spend years to achieve mastery in the space you love and have the skills for.     "Ignore naysayers."   Florence Griffith Joyner  , fastest woman of all time, three gold medals including 100m in 1988    Things you do not control..  Financial support   A PwC study states that a country wins more Olympic medals if its people are wealthier (higher PPP adjusted GDP per capita). If you are from a wealthier family, it is easier to focus on building your skills, education and performance goals than worrying about the essentials of life. The choice to work hard is still yours.    Culture   Australia—where the society values all sports highly—has a 1:500,000 Olympic medal to population ratio. India—where society values education over sports (apart from cricket) has a 1:200 million ratio. Similarly, an environment that values your passion or career helps you get support and motivation. For example, the highest percentage of IAS successes are from Bihar and IIT successes from Andhra Pradesh.    Not having options   During the Cold War days, the planned economies—Russia, China, East Germany and North Korea—which had high control over the lives and choices of their people, won more medals on an average. Similarly challenging circumstances with lesser freedom and options, like domineering parents, strict external discipline,leads you to greater effort.    Being a localite   The host country in Olympics wins more medals on average than it wins in other Olympics because the athletes travel less, know the venues and the crowd. Similarly, it is much easier to be a startup billionaire if you are at Stanford or a Bollywood star if you are from Mumbai. You have the advantage of exposure, access and information for a longer time.    Predecessor performance   A country's record in the previous two Olympic Games is a great predictor of medal tally since the factors that led to Olympic domination continue to exist. Similarly, if your predecessors—past colleagues, siblings and parents—are world class in your domain, you may find it easier since the support systems and knowledge is likely to be available.     (   Devashish Chakravarty,   Director, Executive Hiring, at QuezX.com)  

