URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/why-there-are-so-many-me-too-startups-in-india/articleshow/53399165.cms

Title : Why there are so many me-too startups in India - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,VentureNursery,US,technology,startup,people,Market,India,Future group,Food,europe,environment,entertainment,Education,Business

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 05.14 AM IST

Document ID : 321

Content:
  Does the Indian startup universe have a clone problem? The short answer is, yes, it does. The more nuanced answer is it may not necessarily be a problem. Sure, it's easy to get cynical about the umpteenth e-commerce portal with dollar signs in its eyes and pretty much the same old assortment on its site. It's also too easy to point out that almost every much lauded startup today has a global forebear. Some of whom are even present and currently slugging it out in India.     Read on to find why originality finds relatively few takers, why 'original' does not always equal 'good' and where having a fresh idea works best    An original idea is sometimes a harder sell:   If a remarkably original idea flops in India, blame it on the caprices of the investors, a VCous circle, if you will. Marketing consultant turned angel investor and founder/director, Fingerlix, Shripad Nadkarni points out, "One of the first things venture capitalists ask is 'where else in the world has this idea worked?' It's almost as if a young dynamic entrepreneur has to think of something in the US and then quickly get it here before the original comes in."     It's the quickest way for entrepreneurs to tailor their thinking to something that will fetch them quick money. Or look for the next space they can be the "Uber of" even if they are the third or the fourth to go to market with that concept. Between her two stints at Cafe Cofee Day, Bidisha Nagaraj, the chain's group president - marketing, spent a few years as consultant. From her experience, there are two sorts of entrepreneurs: the first that believes in their idea and is willing to put in time and effort till it percolates down to the consumers.     The other are the poster children of the VCs. Says Nagaraj, "Regardless of whether there's an impact in the consumers mind or a problem they can solve, as long as they show a growth plan on revenue, come what may, they get funded. The first sort believes there is a time to learn and a time to earn. The second type believes first I want to earn and in the process I may also learn."     To flip things around a bit, originality matters a lot less in the grand scheme of things than the potential an idea has. Which brings us to... As long as its 'original' to the consumer or the country, who cares?     Critics will point out that this the same logic Bollywood's most noted plagiarists have used to justify their wholesale borrowing. However in the world of business, the same rules don't necessarily apply. Ravi Kiran, angel investor and co-founder, VentureNursery, says of the criteria he uses to evaluate startups, "While the team is central without a doubt, no matter how good they are, they can't change the course of the market. But if they've identified a problem that is real intense and big, we start from there." There's a general consensus that too many wannabe entrepreneurs are hung up on "original ideas," which may or may not be relevant or have potential to go the distance.     Besides, as Nagaraj points out, "How do you define original? If I am seeing or embracing something for the first time, it is original; I don't care if it's already there in the US, Europe or Timbuctoo." The genius of Indian startups often lies in how well they are able to package an international idea for uniquely Indian situations and conditions. Says Nagaraj, "We need to applaud them for that rather than criticise them for replicating ideas."    Original ideas need to emerge in places they are needed   VentureNursery has a clutch of categories it focuses on: media and entertainment, retail, ecommerce, technology, education and clean technology. Of these according to Ravi Kiran, ecommerce is oversubscribed while clean technology, a great need in these more environment conscious times, goes abegging. There are several such spaces that could do with some innovative thinking, built to address the unique challenges of India as a country.     A lot of Nadkarni's investments, he admits, have been in companies that have filled up niches left by major players: be it ethnic drinks from Paper Boat or craft beers from White Owl. "Given consumer trajectories, I can see them becoming big very soon," he says.     What funders are looking for is not necessarily something freakishly original but a spin on an existing idea that can lead in a different direction; a spin that a larger player either cannot or will not replicate, and the potential increase in the size of the pie, once the spin is factored in.     While many of the global food giants have spent millions of dollars trying to change Indian eating habits, companies from Nadkarni's Fingerlix to Future Group are attempting to create offerings more suited to the Indian palate.     In a country with millennia long culinary history, a curry is not an original idea. But it can become one if made convenient, healthy and yet allowing a home chef a certain degree of control over the final outcome. Original ideas exist, but just take a lot of looking, and a lot of convincing. Is it any wonder then that people gravitate towards being the next Amazon-killer or the Uber of X?    

