URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/oracle-fin-to-supply-core-solutions-to-3-new-banks/articleshow/53719150.cms

Title : Oracle Fin to supply core solutions to 3 new banks - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Oracle Financial Services Software,Janalakshmi Financial Services and Equitas,indian banks,holistic view,FinTech,Customer,Core Banking Solutions,Amazon

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 11.56 AM IST

Document ID : 184

Content:
  MUMBAI: Core banking solutions are moving from being products to platforms, said Chet Kamat, chief of Oracle Financial Services Software, which has won the mandate to provide banking solutions to three new banks.     Oracle, whose Flexcube banking solution powers operations of HDFC Bank and Yes Bank, has been selected by two small finance banks and one payments bank. The small finance banks are the ones promoted by Janalakshmi Financial Services and Equitas, while the payments bank is backed by NSDL.     "The direction that I see it going is one where banking solutions evolve from being a product to a platform," said Kamat. He said that banks today own the customer - they have significant number of products and a strong ability to do risk management. There are also fintech companies with innovative products but without customers.     "A modern bank has the application architecture where it can get a fintech to plug into it and leverage the fintech's offering rather than compete with the fintech firm. It is a bit like Apple as an ecosystem where anyone can plug in with an app. The notion of banking as a platform is what we are getting toward," said Kamat.     According to Kamat, Oracle redesigned solutions by reviewing core banking in its entirety rather than add layers to existing capability. "We are cannibalising our own offering based on what our customers may need going forward," said Kamat. Highlighting what has changed in the two decades since Indian banks started adopting core banking solutions, Kamat said that the focus has shifted to getting a holistic view of the customer, which is scattered across channels. According to him, a change in the profile of the customer is requiring that banks engage with the customer differently.     "In PSU banks, the paradigm has been about branch management. Walk into any PSU branch and the system is 'get in line and I will service you when I am ready'," said Kamat. He points out that the customer who is serviced in a different way by companies like Amazon and Uber expects the same level of treatment from banks.     On bank consolidation, Kamat said Indian banks were in a much better position compared to some of the banks in Europe and the US. "Although Indian banks are using technology from late 90s, it is still relatively newer than international banks, some of which are using 40-year-old technology."  

