URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/abhinav-bindra-sachin-tendulkar-vishwanathan-anand-hail-pv-sindhus-brilliant-effort/articleshow/53777716.cms

Title : Abhinav Bindra, Sachin Tendulkar, Vishwanathan Anand hail PV Sindhu's brilliant effort - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,tennis,Sachin Tendulkar,Mahesh Bhupathi,India,hyderabad,amitabh bachchan,Abhinav Bindra

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 11.49 PM IST

Document ID : 287

Content:
  NEW DELHI: India's biggest sporting legends Sachin Tendulkar, Abhinav Bindra and Vishwanathan Anand today hailed PV Sindhu for her valiant performance in the Olympic final against world number one Carolina Marin.     Abhinav Bindra in his message for Sindhu said that he wasn't as heartbroken after missing out on a medal himself as he is today.     India's only individual Olympic gold medallist tweeted:"I think I'm more heartbroken today than I was a week ago! Well played @Pvsindhu1 you are an inspiration to me!"     Tendulkar, who has had inspiring messages for all the Indian athletes wrote:"Well played India's youngest individual @Olympics medal winner @Pvsindhu1. You have won our hearts with the splendid performance."     Chess legend Viswanathan Anand tweeted:"Well done #PVSindhu. its very little that separates a winner & a finalist. Proud of you. Enjoy the silver. well deserved"     India's only tennis medallist Leander Paes said that the Hyderabad girl should be proud of her achievement.     "@Pvsindhu1 you should be very proud of yourself, all of India is!! the way you played & fought hard, true warrior!! Congrats."     Multiple World cue-sport champion Pankaj Advani is happy that Sindhu gave Marin a run for her money.     "Take a bow PV Sindhu. You gave the World Champ a run for her money. You've won all our hearts??"     India's boxing superstar Vijender Singh wrote:"Apart from the #Silver #PVSindhu ,you have won hearts of a billion ppl and developed interest in badminton amongst millions.Mera Naman aapko"     Multiple doubles Grand Slam champion Mahesh Bhupathi said:"You are my Hero @Pvsindhu1 ...amazing fighting qualities...."     Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan was also ecstatic with the shuttler's performance.     "#PVSindhu you played your heart out ! All of India is so so proud of you .. Thank for giving us that moment of pride !!!"     India's hockey captain PR Sreejesh termed the silver as something equivalent to gold.     "This silver is equal to gold for us ...@Pvsindhu1 you are a real fighter"     Olympian and World Championship medallist Shiva Thapa: "Congratulation @Pvsindhu1 on winning the silver medal in #Rio2016."  

