URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/overall-balance-sheet-of-the-merged-sbi-entity-will-be-very-healthy-viraj-gandhi-samco-securities/articleshow/53765085.cms

Title : Overall balance sheet of the merged SBI entity will be very healthy: Viraj Gandhi, Samco Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Viraj Gandhi,US,State Bank of Travancore,State Bank of Mysore,State Bank Of India,State Bank Of Bikaner and Jaipur,So,Shares,people,net worth,Mysore,Market,Jaipur,India,in,et now,ET,depreciation,Balance Sheet

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 08.22 AM IST

Document ID : 619

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Viraj Gandhi, Samco Securities, says overall merger at this point of time, looks market neutral and there is no trading opportunities. Edited excerpts        ET Now: What do you make of it -- 28 shares offered for 10 shares held in State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, 22 shares offered for 10 shares held in State Bank of Mysore and 22 shares for every 10 shares held in State Bank of Travancore?         Viraj Gandhi:    As far as my calculation goes, it is as per the current market price only. I think it is as per the closing price of Thursday or Wednesday if I am not wrong. So what happens is this will be a market neutral deal for SBI but at the same time, if you compare the valuation at which the other banking associates were trading, it is mildly positive for State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur and slightly negative for State Bank of Travancore .        ET Now: You did say that the merger itself would be pretty much neutral for State Bank of India. It does seem that it is more or less closer to the current market price itself. But what do you make of the kind of ratio that we are getting especially in terms of SBI Mysore as well as SBI Travancore where in 22 equity shares of SBI would be given for 10 shares each held in SBI Mysore as well as SBI Travancore.         Viraj Gandhi:    According to my calculation, if I consider State Bank of India to be trading at Rs 250 and if I calculate the current merger ratios, it is currently at the same price that the other banks are also trading. So there is not much scope for appreciation or depreciation for any of the banks which are listed at the current point of time. At best, it will move as per the movement in State Bank of India which will be market neutral from current point of view.        ET Now: Also if we look at the entire profitability of all these associate banks, I was just looking at the first quarter results, SBI did mention that they have already asked the associate banks to in fact clean up their books and in this quarter. Most of the associates banks in fact posted a loss and we did see that if you actually compare the first quarter FY17 profit itself of State Bank of India, it stands at Rs 2500 odd crore and if you take the entire associate banks profitability or for that matter loss for the first quarter, it also adds up somewhere around Rs 2000 odd crore. What do you make of this in terms of the current asset quality, in terms of the current financials of the associate bank merging with State Bank of India? What is the kind of impact that this may have on the overall financials there?         Viraj Gandhi:    If you consider the size of the associate bank compared to State Bank of India today, it is not more than 10%. If you consider the net profit of Q1, it was being taken into consideration that State Bank of India wanted to clean up the book before merging all the associates with itself. So, it does not render itself to comparisons. You should have compared the FY16 numbers which will be more apt for comparisons except for the Q1 numbers.     If you compare the FY16 number, if it is 10% to 12% of the balance sheet size of which 74% is already being held by State Bank of India. It is only merging the pending 26% which was held by other people, let us say, the public in general. If you consider that, compared to the overall size of State Bank of India, it is a very negligible amount and it is not more than even 3% of the total balance sheet size.     So, it is going to change the scenario a lot. What will happen is that the overall balance sheet of the merged entity will be a very healthy one and will be a bigger one because in banking if you are going to be in competition with most of the larger international banks which are going to come to India, size will be a bigger factor. It will matter a lot when you come to overall deposit franchise collection for most of the banks and that is why State Bank of India will be playing a bigger role and that is where it is going to help it a lot. So, overall merger at this point of time, look market neutral. We are not seeing any trading opportunities in this particular deal.        ET Now: Also just looking at the size, quick ballpark calculations there. If you look at SBI parent, it has deposit franchise of Rs 17.8 lakh crore and total SBI associate deposit itself stands at Rs 5.17 lakh crore. This means that the entire deposit itself of SBI associates form nearly 29% of SBI parent deposits and in fact even the advances form nearly around 28% of SBI parent deposit. So given the huge scale that SBI would in fact get in terms of overall consolidation, in terms of the consolidated entity if I just look at the current valuations of State Bank of India, it would be trading somewhere around 1x FY18 price to book value. Do you think that there is a huge amount of possibility that we do see SBI as a consolidated entity positive the merger in fact getting rerated and trading at much better multiples going ahead?         Viraj Gandhi    : Yes so we will have to compare three to four metric over here. First one is the balance sheet which you rightly said is approximately around 25% to 27% but once you have to understand the valuation we will have compare the adjusted book value and also the adjusted net worth of all the associate banks which to our understanding is approximately 10% to 12% of the SBI balance sheet and of that if we consider the valuation and if the merger is going to happen at let us say at current market price at which they are trading right now, so they are right now fairly priced to what except SBT which we feel is currently trading at higher multiple to SBBJ and SBM so feel that there is some scope of improvement in terms of market capitalisation for SBI from the current level but it will not be more than 3% to 5% from current CMP.    

