URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/chocolates-have-traditionally-flopped-through-the-summer-but-cadbury-is-working-on-changing-that/articleshow/53614186.cms

Title : Chocolates have traditionally flopped through the summer, but Cadbury is working on changing that - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Silk and Bubbly,Mondelez,Hemant Rupani,chocolates,Cadbury Dairy Milk

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.16 AM IST

Document ID : 304

Content:
  At the time of going to print, Mondelez's flagship Cadbury Dairy Milk was pulling out all the stops for friendship day with new launches and limited edition flavours. However the chocolate brand's summer strategy may give it a consistent burst of revenue even in months traditionally considered lacklustre for the category.     The reasons are quite obvious: chocolates melt in the scorching heat of Indian summers. The battle for disposable income suddenly includes many more competitors like cold drinks and ice cream, more of a natural fit, considering the season. Mondelez saw a way out given the rise in tourism during these months - summer vacations being a huge moment for many Indian families. Plus, unlike pilgrimages, the other big reason that gets Indians moving, consumers are in a more indulgent mood through their vacations. Says Hemant Rupani, director - sales, Mondelez, "They flock to beaches and hill stations but more of the latter. We believe in engaging the audience holistically and that became a sweet spot."     The mood in hill stations is typically one of celebration and indulgence. And so the company picked 13 destinations in the north and east to see if it could make its folio more accessible, actively engage with consumers and translate that into sales. The places selected included Almoda, Haridwar, Dalhousie, Gangtok, Darjeeling and Dharamshala among others. The first step was expanding distribution since Rupani admits, the retail footprint is not constant in these parts. Outlets mushroom every summer and typically fade as the tourist crowds leave. Faced with the task of cracking distribution, Mondelez came up with a small unit with a glass top. Salesmen wandered around, equipped with these, catching the attention of consumers eagerly strolling by and in need of a quick pick-me-up.     And so while in most other geographies the predictable dip happened, in the target markets, there was an uptick. This was both in the premium end of the portfolio like Silk and Bubbly as well as in the small packs of Cadbury priced at Rs 5. Rupani admits, "The lower end was driven by coinage challenges and so became a form of currency."     The north and east were chosen because the hill stations of central and west India remain relatively warmer through these months. Mondelez is contemplating South India but as Rupani observes, tourism in that part of the country is not restricted to the summer months.     The result: a lift by as much as 15% to 20% of offtake in these markets. Demand was higher than anticipated. Says Rupani, "We found some retailers were reaching out to distributors to pick stock at a higher frequency than anticipated." Besides, it also tapped into the brand's campaigns which have been about the joys of sharing. As Rupani points out, "While aware people may not have consumed the brand in the recent past, it helps as a reminder. And to sell more of the larger packs when you find an entire family walking by."  

