URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/why-balanced-funds-are-not-as-safe-as-they-are-made-out-to-be/articleshow/52951799.cms

Title : Why balanced funds are not as safe as they are made out to be - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : mutual fund,investment,Balanced Fund,aum

Date :  Jun 28, 2016, 11.49 AM IST

Document ID : 841

Content:
  A balanced fund is a great long-term investment option. However, it is not as safe as it is made out to be these days.     You can invest in them with closed eyes. That is how some investment experts are promoting balance funds these days. These experts point to the ballooning corpus of balance funds as a testimony to their increasing popularity among investors. Then they also show how balanced funds have stayed ahead of pure equity funds over different periods as a further proof of their invincibility.     The result: Balance funds have suddenly become the safest investment product for many investors. Many extra conservative investors who abhor stock markets, retired folks who loathe losing even a penny and even seasoned equity investors are queuing up to invest in balanced schemes these days.     Sure, a balanced fund is a great investment product. It is also equally true that many investors have started investing more in balanced funds recently. The assets under management (AUM) of balanced funds more than doubled in the last two years due to increased inflows and rising number of investors. Their performance is also commendable over a long period.     Four top-performing balanced funds have returned a little over 15 per cent over 10 years. In comparison, only two large cap mutual fund schemes managed to offer over 15 per cent returns over the same period. Only three multicap (or diversified equity) schemes managed to post over 15 per cent for the same period, data from Value Research, a mutual fund tracking firm, shows. Undoubtedly, balanced funds delivered the goods to long-term investors.     However, none of these facts make balanced funds the safest and suitable for every type of investors. Like every investment scheme, balanced funds also have certain characteristics. Investors shouldn't overlook them in their search for safety plus superior returns.     To begin with, balanced funds are not "extremely safe," as some experts claim these days. Balanced funds invest in a mix of equity (minimum 65 per cent) and debt. With such a large investment in stocks, it is really foolish to believe that these schemes are absolutely safe from the vagaries of the stock market. Retired folks and stock-hating investors are unwittingly walking into a dangerous terrain.     Balanced funds are not a new phenomenon. Investment advisors have been recommending balanced funds to first-time investors to the stock market and very conservative equity investors for a long time. Several investment advisors believe that most first-time equity mutual fund investors tend to panic when they see their investment lose value sharply during a volatile phase in the market. Most of them sell their investments and scoot the market. Most of them never return to the market. This is the main reason why these advisors used to recommend balanced schemes to such investors.     Since balanced schemes invest in a mix of equity and debt, they are less volatile than pure equity schemes that invest the entire corps in stocks. The debt part of the portfolio helps balance funds contain volatility to a great extent.     Balance funds also helps novices to book profits regularly and rebalance the portfolio as per the asset allocation plan, something most investor will not be able to do it themselves. Since these funds have to maintain a minimum of 65 per cent in stocks (to qualify as equity schemes for taxation purpose) and the rest in debt, they rebalance their portfolio by booking profits regularly. Most financial advisors attribute their superior long-term performance to this practice of regular booking of profits and rebalancing the portfolio.     Finally, if you are a conservative investor looking to invest money for long-term financial goals that are at least five years away, you can consider investing in balanced funds. As you are aware now, they are less volatile than pure equity scheme. However, don't rule out volatility completely. If at all there is some extra volatility, don't panic and sell or discontinue your investment. Hold on to your investment to achieve your long-term financial goals.    

