URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/my-job-is-to-bring-citrix-back-on-its-core-path-kirill-tatarinov-ceo-fort-lauderdale/articleshow/52664266.cms

Title : My job is to bring Citrix back on its core path: Kirill Tatarinov, CEO, Fort Lauderdale - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,Microsoft,Kirill Tatarinov,Fort Lauderdale,citrix labs,Citrix India

Date :  Jun 09, 2016, 03.43 AM IST

Document ID : 207

Content:
  Kirill Tatarinov    took over as CEO of Fort Lauderdale, Florida-headquartered software company Citrix Systems in January this year. Former high profile Microsoft veteran, Tatarinov has his task cut out with Citrix which, in his own words, had lost focus a few years ago. In the past 12 months, it has had multiple CEOs and gone through painful restructuring. In an exclusive chat with    ET    , Tatarinov spoke about his vision for the new Citrix and the importance of India for the company. Edited excerpts:     What are the main challenges that Citrix faces at this point of time?   The last 18 months have been an important time for Citrix. It would be fair to say that the company lost its way five to six years ago. Last 18 months, we are working to bring the company back to its core focus. I came on board as a part of this refocusing, bringing back operating discipline and getting the company to give significant attention to its core products. We announced major restructuring last year and I came a part of it - to refine a new vision and to take the company forward.    What's the new Citrix going to look like?   Our worldview is centered around four industry trends. Cloud adoption by enterprises, mobility growth - the number of companies who encourage people to bring their own devices is at a sky high level. IoT and connected devices is just exploding. Confluence of these forces in making organisations embrace digital. But every company wanting to go digital faces two challenges. One, there is a crisis of complexity. And there is cybersecurity. Thats where we come in. We are going to do this being the best in the world in building and delivering technology services on any device, from any cloud, from any network around the world.    Citrix Labs in Australia has been closed down. Is there any plans to rationalise the operations in India?   What's Citrix India role in the overall scheme of things? We have tremendous innovation happening in Citrix across the world. While we have done some restructuring and rightsizing in 2015, it did not affect Citrix's ability to innovate. And as evident from the technology that was on display at our Tech Fair 2016 yesterday, our ability to innovate in India has not changed at all. India continues to be important for us. India has one of the highest concentration of engineers in the world (over 1,000 plus in Bengaluru) for Citrix - and I can only expect this to grow. India also hosts our global support centre.  

