URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/sensex-reclaims-mount-28k-5-factors-driving-rally-on-d-street/articleshow/53554023.cms

Title : Sensex reclaims mount 28K; 5 factors driving rally on D-Street - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : RIL,ICICI bank,HDFC,BSE sensex,Axis Bank

Date :  Aug 05, 2016, 03.57 PM IST

Document ID : 796

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The S&P; BSE Sensex closed 364 points higher on Friday to reclaim the crucial psychological level of 28,000, led by gains in the shares of ICICI Bank, HDFC, SBI, Axis Bank and RIL.     The Nifty50 ended above 8,650 supported by gains in realty, power, oil & gas, metals, capital goods and banking stocks.     Going by the buzz on Dalal Street, here are the top five factors driving the stocks rally.    Asian markets up on BoE stimulus:  The domestic stock market rose in line with other Asian markets, which were trading higher after the Bank of England (BoE) lowered policy rate to 0.25 per cent from 0.5 per cent earlier for the first time in seven years and announced big stimulus package to support growth.     Bank of England Governor Mark Carney announced that all elements of the stimulus can be intensified, including taking the rate closer to zero, if needed, media reports said.     The monetary policy committee's (MPC) measures include a plan to buy 60 billion pounds of government bonds over the next six months, as much as 10 billion pounds of corporate bonds in next 18 months and a 100 billion pounds loan programme for banks, the report said.     For the domestic market, BoE's rate cut is more important than GST in the short term, Raamdeo Agrawal, Joint MD, MOFSL, said in an interview with ETNow.    GST - the game changing reform:  The Rajya Sabha (RS) earlier this week passed the (122nd) Constitution amendment bill in a bipartisan manner, paving the way for the introduction of GST in India. The government should be able to implement GST from April 1, 2017.     Sectors such as automobiles, consumer durables and media and entertainment will be impacted positively while some other sectors such as telecom will see a marginal negative impact.     "The market is taking this as a huge sentiment booster because specifically for global investors this was one big headline reform, which gives comfort about the government's commitment to the reform agenda," Gautam Chhaochharia of UBS said in an interview with ETNow.    Technical indicator:  The Nifty50 formed a 'Hammer' like pattern on Thursday, suggesting that a short-term bottom has been formed and it would attract buying interest once it surges past the 8,600 level.     The index has rallied by around 27.50 per cent in the last five months and now requires a fresh trigger after the passage of the GST bill to start the next leg of the rally. Otherwise, it may get stuck in a trading range for a while.     "If the index crosses and holds above the 8,600 level, it would witness further buying interest, which could take it towards 8,665 and then 8,700 levels," Chandan Taparia, Derivatives Analyst - Equity Research, Anand Rathi Financial Services, told ETMarkets.com.     Earnings have grown over 100% QoQ: The June quarter earnings have been a mixed bag, but mostly on the positive side, which is giving comfort to the market. Net profit of 829 companies rose 6.4 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to Rs 66,274 crore.     The performance has been remarkable if we look sequentially. Net profit more than doubled when compared with the previous quarter largely on account of the lower base, according to ETIG Database.     Analysts are building a double digit growth for India Inc in FY17 as the economy improves.     "I believe over the next two years, the economic cycle is likely to help the earnings environment. You have capacity utilisations, which are low and those capacity utilisations are likely to go up as the economy takes shape," S Naren of ICICI Prudential AMC said in an interview with ETNow.     Kotak Institutional Equities projects net profit of the Nifty50 firms to grow 14.7 per cent in FY2017 and 20.6 per cent 0in FY2018.    FII buying frenzy:  FPI investors consider the domestic market as a preferred destination for investment given its superior macros, ongoing economic reforms, and long-term growth prospects, market experts said. They have poured in over Rs 30,000 crore in the equity market so far in 2016.     "Even though some traders would want to take some money off the table but India's PE multiple itself will get rerated and go upwards," Manish Chokhani, Investment Advisor, said in an interview with ETNow.     "After the GST, we will start seeing a lot of foreign direct investment also coming into India as well. This would happen because the bill will make life easier for a lot of foreign companies who want to do business in India as well," he said.  

