URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-sbi-bob-turned-unbankable-jp-ends-as-most-traded-stock/articleshow/53651911.cms

Title : Mapping the market: SBI & BoB turned unbankable; JP ends as most traded stock - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Unitech,Sun Pharma,shares of grasim industries,Shares,Sensex,SBI,place,Petronet,Page Industries,Open Interest,of baroda,NSE,Nifty bank,nifty,New Delhi,new,mountain,Market,Ke,JP ASSOCIATES,Japan,in,Idea Cellular,HPCL,Grasim Industries,end,earnings,benchmark,Baroda,bank of baroda & rsquo,Bank of Baroda,Adani Ports

Date :  Aug 11, 2016, 03.51 PM IST

Document ID : 830

Content:
  NEW DELHI: It's Mountain Day in Japan and the Sensex offered its own tribute to its Japanese friends by forming its own monument on the line chart.        The ultimate aim was to suggest that  darr  ke  aage jeet hai  . And, it did. The benchmarks managed to make a comeback after the fall to find its mojo back and live up to that motto.     The benchmark Sensex closed 84 points up at 27,859 while the broader Nifty50 edged higher by 16.85 points to 8,592.     Here's how the 'monumental' journey of the Sensex unfolded.    No safe harbour:  Shares of Adani Ports found no safe harbour to dock their crumbling ship, as they slipped close to 1.91 per cent during the session. After a strong showing in June quarter, investors chose to book profit and take the exit route, leaving the company's ship for rebuilding its next leg of rally.       Will SBI bring another plunge:  The fear is that India's largest lender SBI will create some ripples in the domestic equity market on Friday when it announced June quarter earnings. That fear caused the bank's stock tank 2 per cent to end the day as the second biggest loser. One hopes things won't be as bad as they are made out to be.       Bank of Baroda not bankable:  Bank of Baroda's June quarter numbers were not shabby to the eye, but for those who dug deep, asset quality of the bank deteriorated further. The bank's gross NPAs climbed to 11.15 per cent from 9.9 per cent sequentially. That caused the stock to tank 9 per cent during the session.       Most active stock of the day:  Shares of JP Associates stole the title for being the most actively traded security on NSE as they gained 5.41 per cent. It was followed by the whipping boy of the day, Bank of Baroda, which declined 9 per cent. Other prominent names included SBI (down 2 per cent), Unitech (down 0.8 per cent) and Idea Cellular (up 2.64 per cent).       Spurt in open interest: Shares of Grasim Industries saw the biggest spurt of 44 per cent in open interest (OI) in the F&O; segment during the session as the stock gained 6.44 per cent. Nifty Bank futures took the second place with a 41.65 per cent spurt in OI followed Page Industries, which clocked a 32.20 per cent rise in OI. Other stock futures that saw significant change in OI included Sun Pharma (16.78 per cent), HPCL (16.66 per cent) and Petronet (13.23 per cent).     

