URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/traders-should-buy-long-positions-on-nifty50-above-the-8750-level/articleshow/53783164.cms

Title : Traders should buy long positions on Nifty50 above the 8,750 level - The Economic Times



Date : Aug 20, 2016, 12.31 PM IST

Document ID : 447

Content:
By Jimeet Modi  The Nifty50 went into hibernation this week, in line with corporate scorecards. A narrow trading range combined with lacklustre volume made during the week bored market participants.  Last year around the same time, the pessimism in global markets had begun; there was tremendous pressure on commodity prices. Coal and crude oil prices were hovering at decadal lows, the steel sector suffered relentless Chinese dumping and base metal prices fell due to lack of industrial demand.  Now, there has been a 360-degree change in the market outlook: coal prices have risen 35 per cent from the bottom and are running at the year's high. Crude oil prices have risen by a whopping 74 per cent from their nadir.  Metal companies such as Hindalco doubled quarterly profits whereas aviation firms were impacted by a rise in crude oil prices. There were other contrasting reactions in the market.  Cipla reported a 44 per cent drop in quarterly PAT but the stock rose 8 per cent the next day, whereas Lupin reported a 55 per cent rise in quarterly PAT but the stock tanked 5.4 per cent.  The stock market is a function of expectations. Knowing such expectations is the key for successful traders.  Technical Outlook: The Nifty50 continued to trade in a sideways narrow band. A correction during a strong bull market often takes place with a shallow price correction.  The indicators are cooling off from overbought levels to more sensible levels for creating further room for upside. The trading volumes are falling, which confirms the continuation of correction.  Traders should enter long positions above the 8,750 level on the Nifty50 for the short-term momentum to continue. Investors can selectively accumulate quality shares, albeit in a staggered manner to avail the benefits of rupee cost averaging.  Existing long positions should be trailed at the Nifty50 level of 8,500.    Expectations for the week:  The stock market is injected with a lot of global liquidity. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have invested in the Indian market for the 26th consecutive day, taking the total tally to Rs 37,600 crore on a year-to-date basis.  Domestic institutional investors (DIIs) have invested a net of Rs 7,900 crore year to date, leading to buoyancy across all categories of shares. Commodities have gained due to the side-effects of excessive liquidity caused by near-zero interest rates across many developed economies.  The US Fed seems to be cognisant of the negative interest rates across developed markets and has hinted about plans to nudge interest rates at the September meet.  The Nifty50 closed the week 0.06 per cent lower at 8,666.9  Note: GBP-INR looks poised for a short-term rally after forming a classic double bottom in the midst of pessimism. Contrastingly UK's FTSE is hovering nearing its lifetime high, creating a solid divergence in the currency market. Traders can buy GBP-INR, keeping the double bottom as stop losses.    (The author is CEO, SAMCO Securities. Views and recommendations expressed in this section are his own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com. Please consult your financial advisor before taking any position.)

