URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/film-stars-congratulate-pv-sindhu-on-winning-badminton-silver-at-olympics/articleshow/53782585.cms

Title : Film stars congratulate PV Sindhu on winning Badminton Silver at Olympics - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Salman Khan,Rajinikanth,PV Sindhu,Hrithik Roshan,amitabh bachchan

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 11.48 AM IST

Document ID : 104

Content:
  MUMBAI: Calling her the pride of the nation, Amitabh Bachchan, Rajinikanth, Salman Khan and AR Rahman, among other celebrities have congratulated Indian woman shuttler PV Sindhu on winning a silver medal at the Rio Olympics.     Bachchan in his message for Sindhu said she played her heart out and made her country proud.     "#PVSindhu you played your heart out ! All of India is so so proud of you.. Thank for giving us that moment of pride !!!," the "Piku" star wrote.     In another post he mentioned, "#PVSindhu.. Look what you did.. You had 1.25 billion people rooting for you !! That is no mean achievement ! Proud of you !!."     Rajinikanth said he has become a great fan of the 21-year-old badminton player.     "Hats off to you #PVSindhu.... I have become a great fan of yours... Congratulations!," he wrote.     Salman posted a picture of himself with Sindhu on Twitter and captioned it, "Saw the finals on tv with my mother and told her I have a picture with Sindhu. Proud."     Rahman said, "Congrats, Sindhu Very well done."     "Just 21 & all eyes were on her! Sindhu almost did it for India but lost to World #1 Marin. She's not empty handed, she's got the Olym silver," actress-politician Hema Malini posted on Twitter.     Actress Vidya Balan said, "What a girl! What a game! Truly inspiring...Godbless Sindhu!!"     Farhan Akhtar congratulated Sindhu and said that the silver medal is just a start for her career.     "Congratulations #PVSindhu.. so happy for you and your corner.. this silver medal is just the beginning.. Shine On!! #Olympics2016," Akhtar tweeted.     Actress Anushka Sharma praised the sportsman spirit of Sindhu and lauded her performance in the match against Spanish woman shuttler Carolina Marin.     "What a game! Congratulations @Pvsindhu1 on the Silver. Much much respect for your spirited performance and sportswomanship #PVSindhu," she wrote.     Actor Hrithik Roshan said, "I was on the edge of my seat. What a game & what an athlete. PV Sindhu! You have won our hearts. #proud."     "Jeete RIO. God Bless! P.V.Sindhu. Badminton. Women's. Silver," Rishi Kapoor tweeted.     Lyricist Javed Akhtar tweeted, "Congratulations and thank you Sindhu."     Filmmaker Prakash Jha posted, "We like silver ! And we love you Sindhu!! What an achievement @Pvsindhu1."  

