URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/legal/now-get-legal-and-professional-help-in-a-click/articleshow/53571696.cms

Title : Now, get legal and professional help in a click - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Xiaomi,Vakilsearch,Urban Ladder,Startups,Rajesh Inbasekaran,Prashant Narayanaswamy,PayTM,MeetUrPro,LegalDesk,Hrishikesh Datar,Google,Girish Challa,eSignDesk,Docket Tech,Divakar Vijayasarthy,BigBasket,Aditya Pratap,Aadhaar cards

Date :  Aug 06, 2016, 03.03 PM IST

Document ID : 758

Content:
  CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Drafting legal documents or getting a company registered is easier than ever now with a bunch of startups like Vakilsearch, MeetUrPro, LegalDesk and Docket Tech (earlier Notary Mama) who are providing an online platform where one can request for services at standardised rates, pay online and enjoy a hassle free experience.     When Hrishikesh Datar graduated from National Law School, he was determined to build system that would be fundamentally fair, giving equal access to all with transparent pricing and no compromise on results. Vakilsearch was set up in 2011 to help people prepare basic legal documents, fix an appointment with a lawyer and get reliable legal guidance on taxation, property/real estate, company law, labour law, intellectual property and foreign exchange laws online. With BigBasket, Urban Ladder and other well-known names as their clients, the startup claims to have 5% market share.     The Bengaluru-based LegalDesk, founded in 2014, has more than 75,000 people visiting their website every month. The company has automated a lot of legal requirements that helps consumers looking for doing it themselves. The bootstrapped company also gives assistance over phone for a small fee though it does not represent consumers in courts. It has had a cumulative online userbase of over 4 lakh consumers.     "With more than a billion Aadhaar cards and a big smartphone and internet penetration, e-signatures will go a long way in making the country paperless and transparent. Now the government recognises all kinds of documents with e-signatures but there is not much awareness," says Ashok Kadsur, co-founder of LegalDesk.     With the C-DAC and e-Mudra initiatives recognizing and enabling digital signatures as valid proof for government documents, these companies are hoping for increased adoption. LegalDesk recently launched eSignDesk, which makes signing documents possible even in the physical absence of the parties involved.     MeetUrPro founded in 2014 by Divakar Vijayasarthy and Rajesh Inbasekaran aims to be a one stop shop for all tax and legal requirements. The startup offers a platform for clients and professionals to meet, discuss and firm up engagements. Vijayasarthy says his startup has created opportunity for many CAs from smaller towns.     With Docket Tech's services, one can get stamp papers, agreements, affidavits delivered at their doorstep within 24 hours. Founded by Girish Challa, Prashant Narayanaswamy and Aditya Pratap in 2013, the startup boasts of providing assistance with 21,000 documents, with 10-15 orders coming in everyday. With Google as a strategic partner and the likes of Xiaomi, Paytm as its clients, the startup is set to change the way legal business is done with its one day programs offering free company registration.     A venture capitalist, who does not have any investments in the space said that most legal matters will need a lot of back and forths and is still better done offline. He added that the firm is yet to look at any such online companies.    

