URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/b2c-has-been-a-big-driver-for-growth-manish-bhatt-ceo-shilpi-cables/articleshow/53721241.cms

Title : B2C has been a big driver for growth: Manish Bhatt, CEO, Shilpi Cables - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Telecom,Shilpi Cables,Manish Bhatt,B2B,Abu Dhabi

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 02.31 PM IST

Document ID : 639

Content:
 In this interview with ET Now, Manish Bhatt, CEO of Shilpi Cables talks about the company's performance, future investment and business oulook. Edited excerpts:   Can you give us details on what the segmental performance has been?   All our segments continue to perform well. The investment is coming in telecom as the companies have to improve the coverage because of call drops. 3G, 4G rollout is taking place. We are also seeing some gain coming in auto and the growth is there. The big driver has been the B2C where we continue to grow. Our distribution is increasing and we have also added two products last to last quarter and they are also showing growth in the business.    You have launched safe brands with products like house wires, modular switches and MCBs in B2C. What is the roadmap on widening footprint from 18 states, deepening dealership networks and launching more products in coming quarters?   The focus is more on getting to depth. We have already spread ourselves to 18 states. We will take the next two quarters to penetrate further and increase our penetration deep inside those areas and also increase penetration of the new products.    What can this space grow to in a couple of years in terms of expanding your current relationships?   In B2B, we are focussing more on technology driven products where we can differentiate our products. It has a long gestation cycle, for example, we launched antenna. Now with all the frequencies which are now getting auctioned, there will be changes in the way antennas are used and hence the developmental time also would be there.     In B2C, we want to go very aggressively, grow organically and inorganically. One of our big investment is coming in Abu Dhabi and that is one of our key focus area.    You have embarked on investment of about 150 million in UAE unit out of which 50 million will be via equity and the rest through debt. By when will you be doing this, will promoters stake go up?   Presently the work is on. We expect another year's time for this project to start. We will look at the other various options once the business starts.  

