URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/indusind-hdfc-kotak-remain-long-term-bets-siddhartha-khemka-centrum-broking/articleshow/53755478.cms

Title : IndusInd, HDFC, Kotak remain long-term bets: Siddhartha Khemka, Centrum Broking - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wealth,US,UltraTech,stocks,So,people,new,Market,JK Lakshmi Cement,Jagran Prakashan,IndusInd,India,in,et now,ET,economy,earnings,distribution,commodities,city,Business,Beta,advertising,ADS,Aarti Industries

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 04.16 PM IST

Document ID : 621

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Siddhartha Khemka, Head-Equity Research Wealth, Centrum Broking, says ICICI, Axis are the beta plays which are playing out consistently for the last few months. Edited excerpts        ET Now: It is banks all the way and private banks are packing a punch. If anybody thought that these banks are expensive, every time people think they are expensive the price action kind of belies that fact and makes some mockery of all those valuations and the prices continue to move up. What is the house stance on the largecap private sector banks in the Nifty?         Siddhartha Khemka:    The movement in banks have rightly come back and the valuation is up for anybody who is grabbing them. The view on the large private sector banks from our house is more towards tactical play as of now. If you leave apart the banks which are doing well -- names like IndusInd, HDFC, Kotak -- on the fundamental side, they continue to do well and remain long-term stocks.     In other banks like ICICI, Axis you see that the expectation is that the worst is behind. Valuations had come down and these were the stocks which could bounce back on rallies. These were the stocks which were at lows when the market was at highs. So these are the beta plays which are playing out consistently for the last few months.        ET Now: Aarti Industries was one of your stock ideas. This basket as a whole has given blockbuster results this quarter. Name a speciality chemicals company and I think it has done extremely well -- be it Sudarshan, be it Vinati -- the earnings delivery has been spectacular. Why do you guys like Aarti over all the others?         Siddhartha Khemka:    I am glad you brought up this one. You would remember last time I have been consistently talking about Aarti. Even last time when I came to your show, we had a buy rating on Aarti. The stock was that time at about Rs 540 and I think in a month's time it has moved up to Rs 600. This was after the quarterly numbers where in the company's PAT grew 35%. So the speciality chemical space has been doing well for India as a whole and if you see, most of the speciality chemical companies have been reporting good numbers. The volumes have been growing largely on back of a structural shift that we have seen over the last few years where in the global major buyers have preferred India as a supplier for their raw material requirements in speciality chemicals.     Aarti has done well in terms of increasing capacities at the right time. Last year, it did a capex of almost Rs 500 crore and increased capacities. This year it intends to do another followup capex of Rs 400 crore which would add more capacity. On back of those capacities, we see a 15% volume growth for the next couple of years. That should help the company to report 20% PAT CAGR. If you see the return ratios, they are upwards of 20%. Valuations are still despite the movement in the stock is still at 13-14 times. So that is the reason we like Aarti Industries.        ET Now: The other outperforming space at least in terms of earnings delivery this quarter has been cement and I want to talk about UltraTech. This one stands out in the cement pack, again a stock which is not cheap but people are willing to pay top dollar for maybe the assets and the distribution that they have. What is your view on UltraTech and do you guys have a favourable view on any single cement name that people can invest into afresh?         Siddhartha Khemka:    To start with, I am not ready with disclosures on the cement stocks. However, having said that UltraTech is among the largest cement players in India and had done well consistently, having added capacities at the right time. In India, the demand is both from the housing side as well as from the infra side. So, over the last few years, when the housing were doing well, the cement companies did well. Now that infra is picking up, the demand for cement companies have been there consistently. So despite realisation of not doing well, you see volumes growth for most of the big players. Cement players have upwards of 10-15% growth. So, officially we have coverage on cement and we have a positive view on companies like UltraTech, JK Lakshmi Cement, JK cement in the mid-cap space. UltraTech continues to remain the preferred stock in the cement space.        ET Now: You may, may not really have the disclosures ready for this but any thoughts on this? commodities by and large, at least the global commodities, industrial commodities are coming back. It has been visible in the metal names. It is visible in crude and these two have story of their own to tell as well.         Siddhartha Khemka:    As you said, we do not have a disclosure ready on these stocks but the overall house view on the commodities is that they could see a gradual recovery from here on. We saw the US Fed comments yesterday which says that the US economy is on a strong footing and so overall demand is expected to pick up gradually which is leading to the rallies in commodities in India as well as I believe global stocks in commodities. So that continues to plays out and one can keep a tactical watch on the commodities side. Obviously, the fundamentals will take time to come into numbers for these companies.        ET Now: The other idea or the last idea that we have not discussed today is Jagran Prakashan, what is the rationale here?         Siddhartha Khemka:    Jagran is a print media company. As we know, it has a publication called Dainik Jagran which is India's most widely read newspaper. The company is doing well in its core business that is the print space. The ads are growing for it on a 10-15% basis. The expectation is that from here on, the ad growth would be much better looking at the upcoming festive season, the overall bullishness in the consumer space, the Seventh Pay Commission, good monsoon should lead to a higher consumer trend and that should lead to higher advertising revenues for a company which is in the print space.     Apart from that, if you see it has also acquired few other new emerging companies Midday, Naidunia, Radio City which are doing well. So the expectation is for the company to see a consistent 15% top line growth, operating margins of more than 30%, return ratios of more than 20%. So we have a buy rating on the stock looking at decent 20% upside in one year's time.  

