URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/dont-cross-lakshman-rekha-of-beliefs-shiv-sena-to-court-on-curbs-on-dahi-handi/articleshow/53783211.cms

Title : Don't cross Lakshman Rekha of beliefs: Shiv Sena to court on curbs on Dahi Handi - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Supreme Court,Shiv Sena,Saamana,Raj Thackeray,Devendra Fadnavis,Dahi Handi

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 12.34 PM IST

Document ID : 101

Content:
  MUMBAI: Adopting a strident stand towards Supreme Court's curbs on Dahi Handi in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena today said people will foil such attempts to hinder celebration of Hindu festivals.     "Ganeshotsav, Dahi Handi and Navratra festival are all parts of our beliefs. Courts which are now governing us should not cross the Lakshman Rekha at least in these issues," the Sena said.     "People have elected their government in a democratic manner. Let the government do its job. The head atop the government's body knows what's right and wrong. If an attempt is made to remove this head and murder democracy, then all tiers of national system will collapse," it said.     "The festivals and rituals of Hindus will happen. People will foil attempts to stop them and Shiv Sena will lead this dissent," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said.     "When courts take on the role of government, they should be ready to face mudslinging," the Sena said.     This is because courts are taking all decisions which a government is expected to take, the editorial said.     There is anger among people because of the "fatwas" (diktats) of the courts on festivals, the Sena said.     The Sena's remarks on judiciary came a day after Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis assured the Dahi Handi Coordination Committee members that Maharashtra's Advocate General will represent the state in the Supreme Court at the next hearing.     The delegation held a meeting with Fadnavis yesterday in the backdrop of the Supreme Court order on Wednesday, which restricted the height of dahi handis to 20 feet and allowed persons above 18 years of age to participate in the human pyramids.     The apex court's verdict had upset dahi handi mandals who felt that the height restriction would eliminate the thrill and adventure associated with the traditional festival.     Maharashtra Navnirman Sena president Raj Thackeray had on Thursday criticised the government for not representing this point of view effectively.     Fadnavis had also asked the delegation to celebrate the festival by following all norms.  

