URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/up-to-240-return-in-3-years-not-enough-omcs-can-still-rally-26/articleshow/53393783.cms

Title : Up to 240% return in 3 years not enough! OMCs can still rally 26% - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sensex,Reliance Industries,ONGC,New Delhi,Motilal Oswal,Morgan Stanley,Market,IOC,India,HPCL,Fund manager,Emkay,earnings,BPCL,Auto

Date :  Jul 26, 2016, 12.22 PM IST

Document ID : 779

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The structural reforms-driven rally in the stocks of the oil marketing companies (OMCs) looks unstoppable. If analyst estimates are anything to go by, the stocks have potential to rise up to 26 per cent from current levels.     The three listed downstream stocks - BPCL, IOC and HPCL -have emerged value creators for investors in the past couple of years. At times when stocks of upstream, exploration and production (E&P;) companies failed to offer decent returns amid a slump in crude prices, these stocks have still delivered handsome returns.     The three oil & gas stocks generated up to 29 per cent returns in last one month. IOC has gained 28.70 per cent in the past one month, HPCL 28.15 per cent and BPCL 16.27 per cent. This is against a 6 per cent rise in the BSE Sensex during the same period.     An analysis of 20 PSUs by foreign brokerage Morgan Stanley showed reforms helped the three OMCs increase profits in excess of four times during FY12-16. The return on equity (ROE) for these OMCs grew by 1,300 basis points. The numbers were in sharp contrast with the rest of the PSUs, which reported a 58 per cent drop in profit during this period.     "Despite outperforming the Sensex by over 50 per cent, the stocks of the OMCs are yet to fully price in the positives. They now trade at a 25 per cent discount to FY18e PE and EV/Ebitda on both absolute and relative basis. We expect continued earnings momentum to narrow this valuation gap and drive further stock performance," the brokerage said.     The brokerage has increased the target prices of BPCL, HPCL and IOC to Rs 749, Rs 1,536 and Rs 645, respectively, suggesting a potential upside of 26 per cent, 26 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively.     In the past three years, BPCL has gained 240 per cent, HPCL 424 per cent and IOC 145 per cent.     This is against a mere 14 per cent growth in the stock of Reliance Industries, and a 25 per cent fall in the ONGC stock during this period.     "We started with the deregulation of diesel and saw it happen in some other products as well. Clearly, it is a big positive. The kind of the cash flow management that the OMCs have also shown in last one year is simply brilliant. Again, valuations were never very expensive in that sense. There are huge entry barriers, with the kind of distribution network that these companies have. OMCs remain good long-term bets for investors," said Sachin Shah, Fund Manager at Emkay Investment Managers.     That said, demand is rising. Petroleum demand has grown 11 per cent in India, which is the highest in a decade. Even after diesel deregulation in October 18, 2014, the OMCs still dominate the market with a 97 per cent market share.     "OMCs have demonstrated pricing power by passing on the change in international product prices and exchange rates and by tweaking marketing margins," Motilal Oswal Securities said, adding, "Against the backdrop of a low oil price regime, auto fuel pricing freedom and stable marketing margins, we retain OMCs as our top picks."  

