URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/investing-in-international-funds-good-or-bad/articleshow/53682608.cms

Title : Investing in international funds: Good or bad? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : return,mutual fund,investment,International Funds,Exchange rate

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 362

Content:
  Ritika is a senior executive in an FMCG company. A disciplined saver, she has invested in various mutual funds, some fixed deposits and taxfree bonds. She wants to save for her children's higher education. Her financial adviser has recommended investing in some international funds for the sake of diversification. She wants to know how this would help her cause and what are the risks involved.     Ritika's financial adviser wants her to invest in companies spread over other geographies so that in case her Indian investments underperform due to some country-specific issues, her international investments would continue to give stable returns. This would mean a lower overall adverse impact on the performance of her investments. Having said that, Ritika must not mistake international diversification as hedging or insurance against negative returns or expect it to be a smooth ride. Her domestic and international investments could provide similar returns but might rise and fall at different times, balancing out her risk.     The biggest risk for Ritika would be currency volatility. Investing in a foreign market means her investment amount would be exchanged for a foreign currency at a certain exchange rate. However, at the time of redemption, her investments would be converted back into Indian currency at the prevailing exchange rates. If the exchange rate remains unchanged, the Indian rupee return will be equal to the portfolio return. If the rupee depreciates, the rupee return will be greater than portfolio return and vice versa.     For Ritika, international investment might be useful if she is looking to fund her children's foreign education. Since she earns in Indian rupees, she will have to exchange them for dollars whenever they need it. Investing in a mutual fund that holds international assets means the return to her as an investor is in US dollar terms.     Investing internationally carries both rewards and risks, currency risk being the most significant of these. If Ritika expects to have a financial need for foreign currency (for foreign education or a holiday), international investments might make more sense.     (The content on this page is courtesy Centre for Investment Education and Learning (CIEL). Contributions by Girija Gadre, Arti Bhargava and Labdhi Mehta)  

