URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/Produnova-cant-be-called-a-death-vault-Dipa-Karmakar/articleshow/53790355.cms

Title : Produnova can’t be called a death vault: Dipa Karmakar - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Produnova Girl,Produnova,Khel Ratna,Dipa Karmakar,Bisweshwar Nandi

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 12.27 AM IST

Document ID : 983

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Experts may think it is the "vault of death" but trailblazer Indian gymnast Dipa Karmakar doesn't agree and says she will continue performing the Produnova despite the dangers that come with the daredevil act.     Karmakar, who was the first Indian gymnast to qualify for the Olympics, exceeded expectations by entering the vault finals in Rio before finishing fourth and missing the medal by a whisker.     Popularly known as the "vault of death", Produnova is something that the best of gymnasts hesitate in attempting but not Karmakar. "I will continue doing the Produnova and am not thinking of any other vault at the moment.     I don't think it's a death vault, if we practise, everything becomes easy, my coach made me practise," Karmakar said on Saturday after returning home to a rousing reception. "Everything is risky, if you practise properly everything becomes easy. I made Dipa practise the vault a lot and thus the Produnova has become easy for her," coach Bisweshwar Nandi, who stood alongside her protege, added.     Recalling her experience at the finals, Karmakar animatedly discussed how people cheered for her because of the Produnova. "I became famous for my vault in the Olympics; some called me 'Produnova Girl' others called me 'Dipa Produnova', a lot of people were cheering for me in the finals. I felt I made the right decision by choosing this vault."     Asserting that nothing has changed in her life, Karmakar is extremely proud that she brought gymnastics to the limelight in India. "My life is still the same, I am still a gymnast, I still want to win a medal.     But yes,I feel good that because of me people got to know about gymnastics in India." Elated that she has been recommended for the Khel Ratna, the 23-year-old from Tripura would rather have her coach win the Dronacharya award.     "My coach deserves the Dronacharya award more than me (getting the Khel Ratna)," she said. Coach Nandi, who has been nominated for Dronacharya, was all praise for his pupil and claimed that he always knew Karmakar would qualify for the finals. "I am satisfied with Dipa's performance, had we won a medal I would have felt better but I'm happy," he said.  

