URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/mobile-handset-vendors-urge-government-to-reinstate-old-rule-for-importing-parts/articleshow/53201091.cms

Title : Mobile handset vendors urge government to reinstate old rule for importing parts - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Indian Cellular Association,ICA,Hasmukh Adhia,excisable goods,Department of Electronics & Information Technology,Aruna Sharma

Date :  Jul 14, 2016, 03.33 AM IST

Document ID : 260

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Mobile handset vendors have urged the government to urgently reinstate the old rule of submitting an undertaking with bond or bank guarantee for importing parts for mobile manufacturing, instead of submitting a surety, which has led to higher costs.     The change in the customs rule has led to an increase in transaction and compliance costs, at a time the industry is already burdened with huge compliance costs, the Indian Cellular Association (ICA) said in similar letters to Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY) Secretary Aruna Sharma and revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia.     "These issues are suffocating the potential of the manufacturers to optimize on their manufacturing capacity," Pankaj Mohindroo, National President of the ICA said. "We feel that given limited number of producers, each with substantial capital assets, additional check of surety serves little purpose."     The surety condition for parts import covers around 27% of the input value, which means around Rs 10,000 crores of working capital gets locked up with an interest cost of Rs 1000 crore per month, besides administrative costs of compliance.     "Amendment to replace bank guarantee with surety is also not working as the industry has to fall back on guarantees due to lack of resources for surety, especially in case of FDI companies," Mohindroo said, while requesting immediate reversion to the old system with simple undertaking with bond.     ICA said that the recent changes in custom rule have added various complexities in the manufacturing of mobile phones and its parts, and have resulted in "chilling effects on manufacturing operations" in the country.     This year's Budget saw the introduction of new Import of Goods at Concessional Rate (IGCR) of Duty for Manufacture of Excisable Goods rules, 2016, which replaced the earlier scheme with a view to streamlining the procedure for import of goods for further manufacture. While many concerns of the industry were taken care of, ICA said that a certain changes brought about in the scheme have made it more rigorous compared to the previous rules.     "The checks of registrations and penalties for misuse are more than sufficient to deter the black sheep. In case of misuse, the defaulters can be subjected to exemplary penal action," the association said.     The ICA has also suggested an amendment in the rule for the utilization period of the imported goods for mobile manufacturing to the earlier six-month period, from the current three months, which has taken away the cost advantage of bulk buying. "It may also be noted that the normal limitation period for demanding duty has been raised to two years.     As such, restoring the period to six months will not create any disadvantage to the department for demanding any short payment of duty," ICA said.  

