URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/5-factors-that-will-chart-direction-of-the-market-this-coming-week/articleshow/53694386.cms

Title : 5 factors that will chart direction of the market this coming week - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,Nifty50,just dial,Inflation,banking stocks

Date :  Aug 14, 2016, 11.18 AM IST

Document ID : 818

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Nifty50 surpassed key resistance levels and closed above the 8,650 mark on Friday. However, it slipped marginally by 0.13 per cent on a weekly basis. The S&P; BSE Sensex closed 0.26 per cent higher for the week ended July 12.     The Nifty50 managed to surpass its crucial resistance level of 8,650 on Friday and now a sprint towards 8,700 is likely in the coming week. Banking stocks are the one major factor that can support such a bounce.     Earnings of the country's largest public sector bank State Bank of India calmed nerves on the Street, when it reported better-than-expected numbers on Friday for the quarter ended June 30.     "If Bank Nifty continues to perform well next week, it will mean a lot more upside on the Nifty50. The bias remains bullish," Kunal Bothra, Technical Analyst, told ETNow.     "The start of next week is more important, because there are no major triggers both domestic as well as global for the market from now on," he said.     Here is a list of top five factors that can chart the direction of the market in the coming week:    Inflation and industrial production data:  The market will react to July inflation data as well as industrial output data for June, which came after market hours on Friday.     Consumer price inflation rose at the faster-than-expected pace to 6.07 per cent in July, up from 5.77 per cent in June, government data showed on Friday. India's industrial output rose 2.1 per cent in June from a year earlier, driven by consumer durables and electricity production.     "While Inflation has surprised on the upside, recent high-frequency data suggests ebbing of food prices," Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist, Kotak Mahindra Bank, said in a note.     "We continue to maintain that the recent surge in food prices will begin to fade in the following weeks and a favourable base effect will keep the inflation trajectory in the comfort zone in the second half of FY17. We pencil in a 25bps rate cut in CY2016," she said.    Minutes of July US Fed policy meet:  Market participants across the globe will keep a close eye on the minutes of the July policy meet of the US Fed, which will be released on August 17, Wednesday.     The minutes of the Fed's July policy meeting may come under scrutiny given that the central bank has only one opportunity left at its meeting next meeting to raise rates before the November presidential election, said a media report.     In July, the US Fed left key benchmark policy rates unchanged at 0.2 per cent while saying that the 'near-term risks' to the economy have diminished.    WPI Inflation:  India's wholesale price index-based (WPI-based) inflation, which accelerated in June from the previous month, will be in focus. The index touched a 20-month high last month as prices of fruits, vegetables and cereals continued to rise.     Data released by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion showed that WPI-based inflation quickened to 1.62 per cent in June from 0.79 per cent recorded in the month of May.    Next batch of earnings from India Inc:  Net profit rose 3.2 per cent on a year-on-year basis to Rs 74,234 crore for the quarter ended June 30 year on year and by about 89 per cent sequentially, according to aggregate data from 1,390 companies compiled by ETIG.     "In the coming week, market movement will depend on quarterly results of some of the major companies such as Just Dial, Power Grid Corporation of India, Philips Carbon and India Cements," said Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research.    Technical Check:  The technical setup of the market remained bullish, but the momentum is not that strong. It can only improve if the index manages to move above the 8,750 level.     "The momentum indicators although are slightly overbought, but there is no visible signal to indicate that the market is topping out. Holding above the 8,500 level is going to be the key for the market in the August series," said Gadia.     "Our mid-term trend outlook is still very strong as long as the market remains above the 8,500 level. The key support for the index from a medium-term perspective is placed at 8,550-8,570 levels and resistance is seen at 8,720-8,750 levels," he said.  

