URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/policy/psu-employees-may-be-able-to-buy-more-shares-of-their-company/articleshow/53424920.cms

Title : PSU employees may be able to buy more shares of their company - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Securities and Exchange Board of India,sebi,PSU,NTPC,Market,Indian Oil Corp,indian oil

Date :  Jul 28, 2016, 03.40 AM IST

Document ID : 778

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The market regulator may consider a suggestion that the limit set for employees of public sector enterprises to invest in their companies through discounted share offers be raised from the currentRs 2 lakh, an official with knowledge of the matter said.     The move comes after power producer NTPC's sale of shares to its employees. NTPC employees bid for more than 85 per cent of the over 2 crore shares offered to them at a 5 per cent discount to the price at which the government sold shares at a public issue.     It was the best ever response to a state-run company's offer to its employees post a public issue, but the government believes it can be even better if the limit is raised. There have been some discussions on the issue and it is expected that the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) may consider easing the rules, the official said. "There is a case for this, but interest of the PSU sector cannot be looked at in isolation. If any relaxation is provided, it will come with some more stringent norms."     A one-year lock-in period may be introduced for the shares thus acquired by employees, the official said. Under the current rules, there is no such period when shares can't be sold.     Sebi didn't respond to an email seeking comment.    Employees of state-run enterprises are offered shares at a 5 per cent discount to the lowest cut off price discovered in the wider public offer price. The offer to employees are made after a cooling period of 12 weeks from the date of disinvestment by the government.     NTPC staff was last month offered shares at Rs 115.90 each, compared with the then market price of around Rs 150. The cut off price for the government's share sale to the public in February was Rs 122. The government raised Rs 203.78 crore from the sale to employees.     The amount raised could have been more if the employees had been allowed to pick extra shares to the extent issue was not subscribed. Many who could have bought more than what they did were prevented by the investment cap.     "There is still a headroom available and the present investment limit of Rs 2 lakh per employee acts as a deterrent. The government should ask the regulator to ease the norms and also allow employee trust funds to participate," said an executive at a state-run firm.     Earlier this year, in the case of Indian Oil Corp, 40 per cent of the employees participated in the issue, applying for 53.17 per cent of the 1crore shares offered to them.     A government official said with around 10 companies lined up for stake sale this fiscal year, more relaxed investment rules would encourage employee participation.  

