URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/here-are-the-consistent-outperformers-among-equity-mfs/articleshow/50334213.cms

Title : Here are the consistent outperformers among equity MFs - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Jet Airways,HPCL,ET Wealth,CAGR,BNP Paribas

Date :  Dec 28, 2015, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 863

Content:
  With another calendar year coming to end, it would be easy to sit and identify equity mutual funds which have topped the charts over this period. However, smart investors would know better than to draw any conclusion from this data. Evaluating fund performance over such a short time frame are sure to mislead investors into 'flavour of the season' schemes. A more nuanced approach would be to identify the funds which have outperformed over a longer period, say 3 or 5 years. A fiveyear horizon is reasonable time to judge an equity fund's performance.     However, even this approach has its limitations, considering how the broader markets have spiked since the General Elections in 2014. Since the 3 or 5 year returns are based on a fund's most recent NAV, it is possible it may have done well on the shoulders of the recent market rally, thereby lending a gloss to its overall performance over the entire 5-year time frame. To counter this seasonality in performance, it would be wise of investors to check whether the fund has consistently stayed ahead of peers over these years.     In ET Wealth's analysis of 190-odd diversified equity funds, around 60 schemes have managed to beat both benchmark and category across 3 and 5 year time periods. But only 10 of these have managed to beat their peers in their respective categories for each of the past five years, beginning 2011. This consistency in outperformance clearly makes these funds worthy investments for all seasons. Among the mid-cap funds, only one scheme—Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip— has beaten its category average for each of the past five years. The fund's pedigree is also evident from the degree of outperformance over its benchmark and peers. Across both time frames, the fund has delivered 15% higher CAGR than its benchmark while also yielding around 6% extra CAGR over the category average.     The fund was particularly effective in cushioning the downside during 2011, losing 15% of its value when peers in its category tanked by 24% on an average. The fund, helmed by reputed fund manager Neelesh Surana, is a relatively new entrant, but has built an enviable track record within a short time. Kotak Mahindra Bank, HPCL and Natco Pharma are among its current top picks.        Other noteworthy performances in this category include SBI Small & Midcap, Franklin India Smaller Companies and Canara Robeco Emerging Equities. In the multi-cap category, six schemes have achieved this distinction—Birla Sun Life India GenNext, Birla Sun Life Pure Value, Franklin India Flexi Cap, Franklin India Prima Plus, Kotak Select Focus and Mirae Asset India Opportunities. Among these schemes, Birla Sun Life Pure Value has delivered the highest outperformance, but accompanied by a higher degree of volatility. The scheme follows a distinct value investing strategy, buying into stocks that are trading for less than their intrinsic value.     Among its top picks currently are Tata Chemicals, Jet Airways and HPCL. Last year, the fund delivered a massive 96% return compared to the category average of around 50%. It also lost more value than many of its peers during the downturn of 2011. In this space, Kotak Select Focus and Mirae Asset India Opportunities have solid track records despite being relative newcomers. In the equity-linked savings scheme category, Axis Long Term Equity, Birla Sun Life Tax Plan and BNP Paribas Long Term Equity have achieved this feat.     Axis Long Term Equity, steered by Jinesh Gopani, has delivered the highest outperformance relative to the benchmark across 3 and 5-years and also boasts the best risk-reward profile and lower volatility in this category. This fund is also a relative newcomer in the industry. A purely growth-oriented fund, it has a distinct quality bias in its stock picks. HDFC Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Tata Consultancy Services are the top bets in its portfolio as of November-end. While none of the large-cap schemes managed to outperform in each of the past five years, funds like SBI Bluechip and BNP Paribas Equity delivered big outperformances over the benchmark and category average across 3 and 5-year time periods.    

