URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/business-of-politics-how-the-modi-govt-mastered-the-art-of-taming-opposition/articleshow/53717800.cms

Title : Business of politics: How the Modi govt mastered the art of taming opposition - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : GST Bill,economic policies,Congress,BJP

Date : Aug 16, 2016, 09.52 AM IST

Document ID : 463

Content:
 By Pankaj Sharma    We keep coming back to the topic of influence of politics on economic policy decisions in the Indian context, but in reality it is a very interesting subject because of the nature of our democracy.     It is essentially because politics and economics are usually considered two opposite ends of the spectrum and there are only rare occasions when good economics makes political sense and vice-versa. So, most of the times, it is a huge challenge in a democracy for the incumbent government to convince the opposition parties and the general population on why economic reforms are good or at least to make them more palatable to everyone around.    In a country like India where the level of public debate is not very high because of various reasons, the task becomes even more daunting.     Sometimes, the opposition parties are less of a problem and the opposed factions within a ruling party could be a much bigger obstacle. And, this was exactly the case in 1991-96 in India when P V Narasimha Rao and Dr Manmohan Singh were leading the process of economic reforms. Perhaps the common people didn't have that much access to information and similarly, not enough number of platforms to express themselves during those days.     Also, the key opposition parties were not focusing that much on policy changes as they had other issues available with them to make better political gains.     So, it was a huge opposition from Congress leaders most of the times which was a more difficult challenge for the Rao-Manmohan duo.     Why are we talking about all this today? Not many people would have given the NDA a chance after the budget session of Parliament to build a consensus on GST and to get the Congress on board in a matter of few months. Primarily, there were two reasons for the change of stance by the Congress: a) the party lost a few more assembly elections and it seemed more and more likely that the composition of the Rajya Sabha would change so much over next couple of years that the numbers with the party would continue to decline, b) the BJP was also willing to listen to the grievances of the Congress a little more and the ruling party was certainly not as combative as it used to be earlier.     However, we think the more important and less apparent reason behind the willingness of the Congress to support the GST Bill was the fact that the BJP started isolating it on this issue by getting support from more and more regional parties. India has a reasonably strong federal structure, but there are so many things where the state governments need support from the Centre and it doesn't harm the states to have friendly relations with the Centre. To its credit, the NDA devoted considerable time and energy to address the concerns of the states and tried to build consensus on the GST among powerful regional parties.     To put it simply, it would have been a huge political setback for the Congress, had the Rajya Sabha passed the GST Bill despite it not voting in favour of it. This prospect itself would have been disastrous for the Congress and, thankfully, the party realised this before it was too late. Perhaps, it is always the case that a weaker opposition is a more reasonable opposition and a more reasonable opposition would always be an opposition which is better to negotiate with.     (Pankaj Sharma is Head of Equities at Equirus Capital. In this column, he looks at political developments within the country and analyses their impact on the country's economic policies and financial markets. Views expressed in this article are his own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com)  

