URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/should-you-opt-for-high-risk-beta-stocks-over-quality/articleshow/53568998.cms

Title : Should you opt for high risk beta stocks over quality? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stocks,Quality,investors,Growth,ET Wealth

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 10.27 AM IST

Document ID : 371

Content:
  After a period of sustained weakness, frontline stocks forming the benchmark Nifty index have zoomed 24% from the February lows. This rally marks a conscious shift towards high beta stocks— stocks that are more volatile compared to the broader market—in sharp contrast to the earlier obsession with 'quality' stocks. Performance of strategy indices during the past six months reveals that the high beta strategy, as denoted by the NSE High Beta Index, has delivered 28% return during this period, more than double that clocked by Quality stocks—13%—as represented by the NSE Quality 30 index. Should you get off the quality wagon and ride the beta wave?     Quality refers to companies with robust fundamentals—high return on equity, zero or low leverage, healthy cash flow—and durable business models that provide healthy earnings visibility. Britannia, Sun Pharma, Havells India, Infosys were among the prominent quality stocks sought by investors a year ago.     Beta is a measure of the sensitivity of stock returns compared to market returns. A beta value greater than one suggests the stock has a tendency to rise more than the benchmark index in a rising market and fall more when markets correct. Investors were earlier comfortable paying a steep premium for quality names as, amid market uncertainty, earnings visibility took precedence over valuations. Things seem to have changed. Now, stocks such as Tata Steel, Larsen & Toubro, DLF, Hindalco, Vedanta, among others, are under the limelight. Metals stocks have fared particularly well during this rally. These stocks have performed despite concerns around Brexit and subdued earnings growth.           The expectation that an economic upturn will drive up earnings growth is leading investors to lap up high beta stocks, as these can provide huge returns in a sustained rally. However, experts reckon the mass shift towards high beta stocks is not justified. Dipen Shah, Senior VP and Head, Private Client Group Research, Kotak Securities, says the trend is worrying. "Quality is being sacrificed for beta-led gains. While not all high beta names are bad, quality should be a necessary prerequisite," he says. Rajeev Thakkar, CIO, PPFAS Mutual Fund, agrees: "A turnaround is far away for some of the high beta names, particularly in the PSU banking and metals space."     At the same time, there is also a perception that quality stocks have run their course as valuations there are now quite steep. "Valuations in many quality stocks provide little comfort during a downside. Even a slight earnings disappointment could bring down the stock price," says Thakkar. Havells India, Page Industries, Asian Paints and Titan Industries, in particular, have got a thumbs down from analysts. "The darlings of the market are already over-priced," says Vikas Gupta, CIO, Arthaveda Capital.     So, how should investors position their portfolio? Shah says, investors need to strike the right balance and identify quality stocks that are still available at reasonable valuations. "If a company boasts of genuine quality, valuations tend to sustain at higher level for a long time," says Shah. Investors can still find great picks slightly lower down the quality ladder trading at reasonable valuations, says Gupta. He suggests investors look at sectors where quality remains intact but where there is a degree of uncertainty. Quality IT firms, with strong balance sheet, high cash and zero leverage at moderate valuations are a good option as are two-wheeler companies and cash-rich PSU firms with a monopoly.     Anand Shah, CIO and Executive Director, BNP Paribas Investment Managers, says quality has lost some of its earlier sheen: "We are biased towards quality but have added financials to the portfolio. At this stage, you would do well with having domestic recovery stories." Among the high beta names, players in the road construction and cement space are good bets as they are likely to benefit from the infrastructure push, says Thakkar. In this basket, analysts are positive on NCC, LIC Housing Finance and IRB Infrastructure Developers. For those who want to stick to quality picks, Maruti Suzuki, Infosys and ITC still provide room for upside in the medium term, say analysts.  

