URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/the-many-phases-of-director-r-balki/articleshow/53722536.cms

Title : The many phases of director R Balki - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.17 AM IST

Document ID : 290

Content:
Over a decade and a half ago, Wednesday mornings almost invariably meant an angry phone call from R Balakrishnan aka Balki, then national creative head of Lowe Lintas. He would rant furiously about an ad from his agency that had found its way into the Bekaar segment of our then fledgling Best - Bekaar column.I would soon discover that literally no one apart from Balki could deploy innocuous cuss words like "silly" and "stupid", retired by the rest of us once out of kindergarten, with such menace, vehemence and to such devastating effect.  Among Balki's memorable critiques at the time, delivered in characteristic indignant roar, was "You guys are too culturally disconnected to GET this advertising," a statement that played some part in my decision to join a rural marketing agency, a few years later.  Finally, our alleged cultural disconnections and popular consensus of other creative folk didn't matter. What did was the units shifted and happy clients. And through the last decade and a half, under Balki's leadership, the agency has seen plenty of both.  In an industry full of people who waffle, make polite noises, and err on the side of political correctness, Balki has always been unafraid to stand by radically unpopular opinions. This landed him in trouble on several occasions. For instance, a brutally candid interview with the now defunct ad mag The Brief in the late 90s, with a cover featuring Balki seated atop a couple of basketballs with the slug 'Has Lintas Got Its Balls Back?', a move that went down as well as you'd expect in an agency dominated by hidebound propah suits.  His tirade against Best-Bekaar in particular and armchair critics in general is the stuff of legend and deserves an entire segment all to itself - look for it and an unedited version of this interview on our website etbrandequity.com  For now, here are a few phases from the life and times of a legendary ad man:  Phase 1: Lowe Lintas' weapon of choice on 'difficult' clients  Hindustan Unilever Balki: "My first ad for Levers was a disaster: the Pepsodent ghatam ad. I really had deep disrespect for industry opinion after that, considering it was very well appreciated. Vindi Banga (then CEO of Hindustan Unilever) told me it felt more like an ad for Colgate which promised strong teeth than for Pepsodent which offered germ protection. When we presented the dishoom dishoom to Vindi Banga he didn't like it at all. This was the first time I was meeting him and he said it was trashy and downmarket, that it was not advertising and just gloss. It was scary to be told by the chairman of your biggest business that what you are doing is trashy! I didn't know what to tell him. This was an ad I believed in. So, I told Vindi something very foolish. I said 'What do you have to lose? How many crores will you spend on this? Three crores? You would have spent Rs 40 lakh making this ad? So Rs 3 crores 40 is your loss if this ad does not work. You can always pull it back. But I won't have a job because my agency will sack me. So I am betting my job. You bet Rs 3 crore 40 lakh.'  Vindi looked at me as if I was a madman. And said 'I will take your word for this. If it works I will give you a crate of champagne.' I said 'If it works I won't need that; just let me have my job back.' The ad worked and he still owes me a crate of champagne!" (Laughs)  Bajaj Balki: "Our first campaign for Bajaj Caliber, Hoodibaba, happened as a result of a fight at a party. We just had a small scooter since Rajiv Bajaj was very pissed off with Lintas back then. Lintas for some reason decided to do an evening with Bajaj. With just one small business (Laughs).  I don't know what happened, or how many vodkas both of us were down; we started shouting at each other and I said something like 'if you have the balls, call us for a pitch.' And he said 'I could call you for a 1000 pitches but you are not going to do anything.'  And then he called us for Caliber. I remember the trauma that somewhere in my state, I had gone and challenged the owner of the company; thankfully he was a young chap and both of us were brash, but what now? It was a nightmare because like all briefs it said 'great mileage great power.' I said it has to be great power or great mileage. Every bike can't have the same thing. But the planner refused to budge saying it had to have both: 'The client won't buy it; it's a pitch.' I kept swearing and finally said, 'What do you want? Some Hoodibaba great god baba boo or something?' And then I stopped and I said 'That's the campaign.' We didn't have any ad or anything. I went to the meeting with bikes and hoodibaba and said this is the ad. They looked at me to check if I was normal and then asked 'Is this a bad word?' I said 'Not to the best of my knowledge. It just sounds big' They said okay, let's go. That was the beginning of my relationship with Bajaj."  Phase 2: Creator of socially driven campaigns Balki: "The little Gandhi film for Lifebuoy was the start of it. My point was at that time, all products sold more when they gave 20% extra free. Ads should also sell if you give 20% extra free. So let's do something nice to wake people up to different things. Jaago Re took the social cause idea and became really big. The campaign for Idea was not a part of that: it was entertainment first and more about having an idea on big issues."  Phase 3: Unwilling campaigner for fair payouts to the creative team Shortly after Lowe bought out the stake in Lintas India for a reported $300 million, the employees trust received a windfall. Not part of this was the creative team who had come on board as consultants and enjoyed the benefits of a fatter pay package, more convenient tax structure and as CEO Prem Mehta said at the time, in as pointed reference to Balki, "We have consultants who take off and make a movie. No permanent employee can enjoy such liberties." Balki got a lot of praise within the system for batting for the creative team but it doesn't count as a happy memory:  Balki: "It was a ****-all time. Somebody tried to gyp us. I was responsible to the clients and to a lot of people there but somebody else was taking a decision. I believed titles are given to carry the people who you've put in charge of various things. So I said 'how dare you do such a thing? You agreed to such a setup and settlement now you have to pay.' Lowe did compensate our people but it was the lowest point of my life at the agency. I wish it hadn't happened. It was so silly and stupid! It left a very bitter taste. I will never forget the behaviour of a lot of people on that particular day, who did not care about a lot of the people who suffered. I wish I hadn't seen that side to them."  Phase 4: Juggling the roles of filmmaker and creative director Balki: "I was struggling with Little Gandhi and on a loo break I got the idea for Cheeni Kum and messaged Amitji who I'd just done a film with. WE met, I wrote a script and he said let's do it. I told Lowe very clearly I will work 9 months; three months annually you have to give me to make a film. That was my contract. But then I didn't do a film for four years after Cheeni Kum. So they got one year from me free of cost (Laughs). Then I did Paa and the same thing happened. It was actually beneficial and helped me a lot in advertising since I came back fresher and stronger. And then I did Shamitabh and Ki & Ka back to back. But before Shamitabh I said Joe 'we have to do a transition. I can't honour this anymore. I can't do a film once in four years.' I'm going to be a lot more prolific now. I am starting a film in January and another in May."  

