URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/six-steps-to-e-filing-your-income-tax-return/articleshow/53019746.cms

Title : Six steps to e-filing your income tax return - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tax,I-T return,Income Tax,ET Wealth,e-file

Date : Jul 04, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 520

Content:
 STEP 1. Register yourself   To e-file your income Tax return, you will have you register on the Income Tax Department's online tax filing site (incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in). You have to provide your permanent account number (PAN), name and date of birth and choose a password. Your PAN will be your user ID.    STEP 2. Choose how you want to e-file   There are two ways of e-filing your income tax return. One is to go to the download section and select the requisite form, save it on your desktop and fill all the details offline and then upload it back on the site. Or you can choose to fill the form online by selecting the quick e-file option.    STEP 3. Select the requisite form  ITR-1:  For individuals earning a salary, pension, or income from property or sources other than lottery.   ITR-2:  For those earning capital gains. ITR 2A for those owning more than one house but no capital gains.   ITR 3, 4 and 4S:  Professionals and business owners.    STEP 4. Keep the documents ready   Keep your PAN, Form 16, interest statements, TDS certificates, details of investments, insurance and home loans handy. Download Form 26AS, which summarises tax paid against your PAN. You can then validate your tax return with Form 26AS to check your tax liability.     If you earn more than Rs 50 lakh, from this year you will have to fill an additional column —"AL" or assets and liabilities. You will have to disclose the value of your assets and liabilities. Assets have to be declared at cost.    STEP 5. Fill form and upload   If you choose to fill the form offline, after you have downloaded the form and filled all the details, click on 'generate XML'. Then go to the website again and click on the 'upload XML' button. You will have to first log in to upload the XML file saved on desktop and click on submit.        Also Read:    Everything you need to know about filing tax return    STEP 6. Verify ITR V   On submitting your ITR form, an acknowledgement number is generated. In case the return is submitted using digital signature, you just have to preserve this number. If the return is submitted without a digital signature, an ITR-V is generated and is sent to your registered email ID.     The tax filing process is incomplete and ITR is invalid unless your ITR V is verified. You can electronically verify or mail the signed ITR V to the processing centre in Bengaluru within 120 days of filing the return.    Here we take a look at the nation's top tax-filing portals:       Also Read:  Are you an honest taxpayer? Find out   Also Read:  5 innocent mistakes honest taxpayers usually make   Also Read:  Under which Section have you got an income tax notice?   

