URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/bajaj-finance-is-one-stock-i-regret-selling-early-nilesh-shah-envision-capital/articleshow/53782690.cms

Title : Bajaj Finance is one stock I regret selling early: Nilesh Shah, Envision Capital - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : portfolio,Nilesh Shah,NBFC,liquidity,Infosys,HDFC bank,economy,Bajaj Finance

Date : Aug 20, 2016, 11.54 AM IST

Document ID : 469

Content:
 In an exclusive interview to ET Now's Nikunj Dalmia, Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision Capital, says there is no room for disappointment and it it is hard to find even one risk factor and the markets have rallied by 20-25%. Edited excerpts:-       Nikunj Dalmia: In a very early part of our careers, we learned this classic line - bull markets always climb the wall of worry and that is what markets have done in the last six weeks.        Nilesh Shah:    Yes, very true and I would probably just add to that that there is always a saying that do not fight the Fed or do not fight the regulators and I think what we have clearly seen over most part of this year is the ability of central bankers to keep the animals spirits alive, keep infusing liquidity, cut interest rates even if it means there are negative bond yields but I think that is what it is and no matter what calamity strikes whichever part of the world, somewhere the central bankers seem to be having unlimited ammunition to fight such calamities.     I think that is clearly the genesis of this global bull market because this is really a bull market and not just about India. Of course, I think India is clearly the bright spot but world over, global equity markets are scaling new heights. Liquidity is flowing into emerging markets and I think that is clearly the source of this bull market.        Nikunj Dalmia: The first part of this line that bull markets always climb the wall of worry, is followed by the second line, that they always come down on a ray of hope and I just get a sense that locally at least there is lot of hope - GST; earnings recovery; the fact that there is abundant liquidity. Markets are taking it for granted. India is a bright spot and I think that is the universal fact right now. So my question to you is that -- is there too much of good news?        Nilesh Shah:    There is fair bit of good news. There are several drivers, clearly and these are all the factors -- be it DBT, be it a strong monsoon, the passage of the GST bill, potential for interest rates to continue to head south and, of course, the softness in commodity prices may not be from six months perspective but from a one year, two year perspective.     I think all the ingredients which you require for a bull market, for growth, for margin expansion, all these ingredients are there and therefore I think from a two to three years perspective, the bull market will continue to play out. The challenge in the short term and like you said, good news is in abundance and right now at these kind of levels the way we have seen an upsurge, I do not think there is any room for disappointment.     I think if there is a one negative event from a global perspective and not so much from a local perspective. I think that itself could be good enough to in a way put speed breakers to the upmove that we have seen or even create a short-term correction in the market place. I think six months back, the situation was very different -- markets were low, prices were low, expectations were low. There were uncertainties whether we would have a normal monsoon. There were uncertainties in terms of the passage of the GST bill. There were elections in some of the states. We really did not know what the outcome could have been. So there was a lot of uncertainty. Today, it is hard to find even one risk factor and, of course, the markets have rallied by 20-25%. Some of the stocks have rallied a lot more. So clearly, I think at this point of time, one has to be a bit careful, one has to be cautious and look out for the fact that in the next three-four months, potentially you could have some piece of negative news which bring on a correction and give you a fantastic opportunity to load up or re-enter your chosen set of stocks.        Nikunj Dalmia: Today when we look back and analyse, I think February 2016 gave a great entry point to long-term investors. But six months from now when we will look back and analyse August 2016, will that appear like a missed opportunity or this market will give us better entry points?        Nilesh Shah:    I think this market could give you..., I am not too sure whether the lows of February or March will get re-visited. It is hard to kind of forecast that at this point of time. But it is quite possible that from the levels that we are today, which is roughly about close to 30,000 on the Sensex or 8700 on the Nifty. I think if you keep that in perspective, it is quite possible that over the course of next six months, there could be multiple factors which could cause a correction in the market place. It could be the US Fed's decision to go ahead with the rate hike. We have to keep in mind that I do not think they can allow 2016 to pass without hiking any interest rates. They have been able to postpone it so far but I think now the probability is against it in the sense that we now have just about three or four months left for 2016 to get over...        Nikunj Dalmia: Then there is a presidential election in between...        Nilesh Shah:    And there is a presidential election in between. So right now, the whole question is maybe it is a divided house, whether there will be a rate hike at all or not, but if you really look at what the Fed has been saying that I think there is a chance of a rate hike.        Nikunj Dalmia: Bright side for compulsive bulls is that the base effect will kick in. Banks have written off their earnings for FY16. FY17, the base effect would kick in for them. Big energy write down for FY16 will kick in. This year we have good monsoon. So the monsoon demand also could surprise us. Are these realistic assumptions that earnings could surprise us and demand and also productivity is going to go up in linear manner?        Nilesh Shah:    I think these assumptions are realistic. One cannot really say that these assumptions cannot materialise. If it all, there is a good chance these assumptions can materialise. I do not think it is a very easy proposition right now because I think everybody has been really betting on the PSU banking space kind of reviving. I think what we have seen is a rally driven by the bond markets and the yields out there, the fall in yields and therefore a potential for treasury gains. But I think the asset quality issues still continue and we really do not know how long this will take, number one.     Number two, the key for any bank is essentially the ability to grow the net interest income. Now if you have not been lending, for how long will you basically not lend and when will basically you start lending and when will that start flowing into the P&L.; I mean you buy a bank for its principal business. You really do not buy a bank for essentially just taking a call on treasury. If you could do that, you could actually just go and buy a bond mutual fund or you could buy bonds yourself. Why go and buy a PSU bank for that. So I think one has to be cognisant of these realities.     I think the big driver going forward will continue to be the key sectors which have been driving earnings so far. If at all there is a better chance that they actually could enter into double digit earnings growth and mind you, by and large most investors or participants are expecting earnings to get into double digit. So I think tomorrow if earnings start growing at 12% or 15%, I do not think that is going to be a huge surprise. I think the surprise can be that instead of 12-15% earnings start growing at 18-20% that I think could be a significant surprise. But otherwise by and large I think at these kind of valuations, markets are factoring in a mid-double digit earnings growth over the next one year or so.        Nikunj Dalmia: My only worry is that markets have been very patient also and earnings are not coming. I mean I really hope the patience does not run out. I mean that is the biggest challenge right now, the leap of faith which everyone has taken. Okay so let us talk about the way you invest and the way you invest is that you like to treasure hunt in the midcap space and for the first time midcaps stocks are trading at a very smart premium to larger cap stocks. Historically, it is the dog which wags the tail but now tail is really wagging the dog and that is the big challenge.        Nilesh Shah:    Yes so I think there are two pieces to that - one is liquidity itself. So there is liquidity which is coming in and over the last couple of years the midcap space has been outperforming the large cap space by reasonably large margin. Despite that, of course, I do not think it has yet been a very significant run away rally. Yes it has been a runaway rally from a six months perspective, but if you look at the last one year, I think the Sensex Nifty are still flat and the midcap index is probably up just about maybe 10% or 11%.     So, in a way, it has not been still a stellar bull run so to say. Yes, of course, there have been individual pockets of exuberance but I think by and large as a basket, it has still been a very muted or a softer upside that one can see. The nature of the beast as far as midcaps go, is when you have a gush of liquidity, stocks go through the roof because of ownership challenges. There is a bit of delta and all of that. One has to be a bit careful now given that midcaps are trading at a premium to the large caps and that is because if you look at most of the midcaps, a lot of delta, a lot of growth in earnings has come in because of gross margin expansion as cost of raw materials have fallen and you are still able to basically pocket all of that and pass very little to the OEMs.     I think over a period of time, your principals or your OEMs all of that are going to ask you to pass on some of those margins. So one has to be very careful and get back and see that what can actually be a sustainable revenue growth and a sustainable bottom line growth and not get carried away by how the performance of some of these sectors or companies have been over the last one or two quarters. I think it is very, very tempting to basically look at last one or two quarters and extrapolate that for the next four quarters or next eight quarters and saying this is going to be the sustainable earnings. I think that is where some bit of disappointment can come in. But I think where valuations are, I think some of the larger caps or the larger midcaps can potentially outperform.        Nikunj Dalmia: So then, what are you doing at your fund level, you do not buy large cap, you have to stick to midcap?        Nilesh Shah    : Yes so I think within that if you look at some of the larger midcaps and I think areas like say banking, financials, pharmaceuticals, these are some of the pockets where growth could still continue to be good, where valuations are reasonable. So I think if you look at banks, some of the leading private sector banks are trading between three times to five times price to book whereas some of the new generation banks, banks which have just been set up, they are trading between 1 to 1.5 times price to book.     Some of the old generation private sector banks are trading in that kind of range. I think probably at this point of time you need to take a valuation call.     I think at these kind of valuations, not much can go wrong from a 3-5 -year perspective. There is potential for some of these banks to positively surprise you over the next three to five years and even if they grow at about 15% to 20% earnings over the next three to five years and with some bit of re-rating, you could actually end up with some bit of double digit compounded returns over a three- to five-year perspective. It is rare to see businesses which can grow at say 20% on a sustainable basis for 10 years and at a reasonable price.     The mistake or the errors to which anybody can be prone to or be vulnerable to is to overpay for a quality business and I am not too sure if I have said this but if you rewind 10 years back, everybody was so bullish on the telecom business and I think over 10 years Bharti AIrtel's revenues have grown perhaps at about 24% CAGR but the stock has delivered probably about 5% to 7% CAGR. Infosys again, if you look at March 2003 and March 2016, 13 years, the revenues and earnings have grown between 20-25%, more like 22-23% but the stock has delivered low single digit or maybe mid-single digit returns and that is because of the de-rating which happens over a period of time.        Nikunj Dalmia: PE compression has happened.        Nilesh Shah:    Absolutely and I think that is always a challenge which manifests itself over a period of time. Over one year, two years, three years it may not but over a period of time, it has to because as an investor as somebody who is running a business it is one thing, but as an investor we have to keep in mind that we need to kind of buy a quality business at a reasonable price. If you buy a quality business and you overpay for it, it is unlikely that you will make market beating returns over a period of time.        Nikunj Dalmia: When we look back and analyse the last decade, the standout gainer has been HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited. If we look back and analyse the current decade, the standout gainer has been Bajaj Finance, NBFC names. So where do you think the next standout gainer will come from?        Nilesh Shah    : My sense will be that it will continue to be from this space because...        Nikunj Dalmia: Which is NBFC finance, private...?        Nilesh Shah:    Yes and you could look at the entire pack and pick and choose from any of them. It is not like say pharma where you have a few names or it is not like say the auto space where you just have two or three OEMs but there is so much to pick and choose from and you could basically say oh! I want to bet on the PSU banks because I think from here they can only get better or could you...        Nikunj Dalmia: Are you betting on PSU banks?        Nilesh Shah:    No. I am just saying is from a choice point of view. I mean we are not yet betting on PSU banks and I do not know at what stage we will bet on that but right now no but I am just saying is that you have some of the new banks which have just got set up, then you have the old private sector banks which have transformed themselves. Of course, over the last few years, they have been paying a cost because of legacy issues but I think somewhere down the line those legacy issues will terminate and whatever initiatives new managements have taken in recent times, I think that will start showing up so you have that. You have the mortgage lenders, the microfinance guys. Within microfinance itself, you have guys who are going to be converting into banks and microfinance companies which are not going to convert into banks and then you have the NBFCs, the specialist NBFCs and all of that. So there is so much to pick and choose from...        Nikunj Dalmia: How much of your portfolio currently is in financial?        Nilesh Shah    : I think we still kind of are in single digit and...        Nikunj Dalmia: You are so bullish on financials, yet your portfolio is single digit. Benchmark weightage is 35%.        Nilesh Shah:    Because I think there is overall... See I do not think we follow a very benchmark strategy. We look at absolute returns. We look at over the next three to five years where can we make absolute returns irrespective of benchmark. So today collectively we have about 14 names that we have across all our portfolios put together.        Nikunj Dalmia: And have those names changed radically in last one year?        Nilesh Shah:    No I do not think it has changed dramatically. I mean you will have a couple of names. We are not into the activity business where you are saying okay now every month, every quarter the portfolio needs to look different. Our holding periods are long so we have a multiyear hold period and I think we see a situation where we are fine with some of our positions even giving kind of back-ended kind of returns because we take a horizon of at least three to five years. So we really do not say okay fine how this quarter is going to be.        Nikunj Dalmia: What are your other outsized bets?        Nilesh Shah:    So I think consumer is our one very big bet and that is an area that we have been liking all along and that is one area that we continue to...        Nikunj Dalmia: Liking consumers is like saying I am bullish on India.        Nilesh Shah:    Oh! absolutely. Yes so obviously. I mean I think you are bullish on India.        Nikunj Dalmia: ...broad canvas.        Nilesh Shah:    Yes absolutely. So we are bullish on India. I think you cannot miss out on consumer and again within consumer there is so much to pick and choose from. You can look at the appliances guys, the discretionary spending variety, the consumer staples, all of that.        Nikunj Dalmia: Where were you betting?        Nilesh Shah:    I think across the board. I think we have positions across the board in consumer. I think we continue to like technology. Within that, we are really not looking at the big boys. We are looking at the specialised players within technology where we believe that yes over next three to five years some...        Nikunj Dalmia: You spoke about Internet of Things, you like companies which are Internet of Things?        Nilesh Shah:    Absolutely. So I think Internet of Things, technology design services, these are some of the areas which we like. So we bet on very specific niches. We are not here to say okay fine next one quarter or next one year this looks good or that looks bad but I think over a three-to-five-year timeframe across consumer, technology, banking and financial services, engineering, I think this is a broad area that we have always liked.        Nikunj Dalmia: What is the average PE of your portfolio?        Nilesh Shah:    I probably think right now it would be close to about 17-18 times.        Nikunj Dalmia: That is not a very expensive portfolio?        Nilesh Shah:    It is not very expensive but I think what is more heartening is that we think that our basket of companies over the next three to five years can grow at north of 20% and I think that is pretty heartening because we really do not think the overall market earnings will probably grow north of 20% but I think a select set of companies in our portfolio have the potential and we estimate that they can grow north of 20%. And I think that in itself is significant and we believe that maybe there might even room for a further upside surprise depending upon how the economy picks up and all of that. Today I think economy is expected to probably grow at about 7% but what if we get into a hyper growth mode and grow at 8-9-10%, what about things like DBT etc becoming all pervasive and pass on to all households? A lot of initiatives of the government, if they get implemented well over the next three to five years India could grow at even a much faster pace. And I think if that happens maybe the tailwinds for corporate India to grow at a much faster pace I think can materialise in a reasonably significant manner.        Nikunj Dalmia: I respect the compliance but because of compliance sometimes it gets very odd for us to make a conversation interesting. So let us talk about what you are permitted to talk about, give me a sense of some micro themes which you are betting on. Consumption is a large theme but it is very difficult to understand how should one invest in consumption. Similarly, financials is a very large theme but it is very difficult to pick and choose when options are available. So let us talk about one or two mega trends and in the entire universe where are you picking your stocks?        Nilesh Shah:    I think we are still within that. If you look at, say for example, the consumer space, I think some of the micro trends and I think this is got to kind of relate to macro trends that you are going to see over the next maybe say five years. There is significant improvement in air connectivity, interest rates are coming down, the propensity to kind of go out for more frequent holidays versus a holiday once in a while. I think if you really look at all of that playing out I think hospitality as a business can actually do very well and I think whether in that you kind of look at hotels, you look at resorts, I think it is obviously for the individual investor to pick and chose from but I think that as a space can become very,very interesting, number one.        Nikunj Dalmia": Number two is if you really look at it, DBT is happening plus of course there is basically an aspiration by the government to double farm incomes over the next five to six years. There is a target which the government has undertaken saying that we are going to have LPG stoves for all families or all households or maybe all the rural households and whether it happens in 2019-2020 or 2022 I do not think it does not matterOEM but I think that is a pretty large space to cover.        Nilesh Shah:    I think the whole nature of the kitchens in India are going to change and therefore the demand for a lot of kind of home appliances, demand for kitchen appliances, I think you are going to see a pretty strong demand out there. And what is going to matter is not just your manufacturing capabilities but I think do you a really solid brand, do you have a strong distribution network out there.     You could actually manufacture in any part of India or any part of the world but I think what you will probably need a good distribution and selling capabilities . You are going to see a lot of new players come up there as well who will take advantage of the e-com distribution network and offer their products and reach out on a pan-India basis on an overnight basis. I think that is going to be significant so that is again a very, very large opportunity which will play out over the next many years.        Nikunj Dalmia: So basically, you are betting on pioneers and you are betting on consolidators.        Nilesh Shah:    Absolutely. I think yes consolidators because they will create entry barriers and pioneers because they will probably come up with a new way of reaching out to the customer or to the consumer and I think both could get disproportionally rewarded over a period of time.        Nikunj Dalmia: But as of now, in terms of an investment approach, you are not sitting on a lot of cash because you have taken cash calls in the past. I think that big cash call I remember in 2013 worked like a charm for you. Are you sitting on cash levels which are higher than your average cash levels?        Nilesh Shah:    Well we are sitting on and I think that is always a situation that you always keep some powder dry because the reality is that the way...        Nikunj Dalmia: ...20% cash?        Nilesh Shah:    No I think we would be around that on an aggregate basis, maybe on some of our more recent portfolios it could even be higher on that because again as I said, we do not take those market calls. We just kind of look at individual stocks and say that okay fine, here is it worthwhile for us to invest into this individual stock over a three- to five-year perspective rather than say that okay fine we need to necessarily be invested on an overnight basis? So we basically look for alpha rather than beta.        Nikunj Dalmia: You have got an investing career which is a sparkling one. It is more than a decade old career. When you look back and analyse your investments, which is one stock you regret selling early and which is one stock you regret selling late?        Nilesh Shah:    Rather than getting into specifics but I think probably something like say a Bajaj Finance for example, I think that is something which probably....        Nikunj Dalmia: Missed opportunity.        Nilesh Shah:    Absolutely because I think the company has re-invented itself.        Nikunj Dalmia: Rs 60,000 crore market cap...        Nilesh Shah:    Yes so if you look at say six-seven years back ,a I think all banks had challenges on their personal loan portfolio. The retail loan portfolio was the big challenge barring say an HDFC Bank but I think for everybody else including NBFCs that was a huge challenge, unsecured loans all of that and I think Bajaj Finance re-invented itself, transformed itself. It was very innovative. I think it was very smart. They used technologies right way and I think took some really good credit decisions and I think that has played out over a period of time and I think when you do something really well and are able to scale up and size up, I think the outcome is re-rating...        Nikunj Dalmia: Which could be the next Bajaj Finance and that is the question I am saying everybody?        Nilesh Shah:    That is a tough question to answer because...        Nikunj Dalmia: ...you may not own that stock so...        Nilesh Shah:    No I think it probably will be one of the microfinance guys because I think there the tailwinds are so strong.        Nikunj Dalmia: Size, scale, everything is...        Nilesh Shah:    Exactly and I think if some of these microfinance guys with the bank, I think that could be a pretty strong combination because a bank helps you to create a liability franchise. The microfinance space helps to you kind of create your asset franchise and when you have both coming in together, I probably think the outcome is a value creation.  

