URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/punjab-approves-two-new-varieties-of-wheat-and-celery-for-cultivation-in-the-state/articleshow/53772514.cms

Title : Punjab approves two new varieties of wheat and celery for cultivation in the state - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wheat,State Variety Approval Committee,Punjab Agriculture University,Punjab,Ludhiana,Chandigarh

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 06.12 PM IST

Document ID : 695

Content:
  CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has approved two new varieties of wheat and celery for general cultivation in the state.     The State Variety Approval Committee approved the varieties developed by Punjab Agriculture University Ludhiana. The decision in this regard was taken by the committee under the chairmanship of Jasbir Singh Bains, director of agriculture, Punjab.     A spokesperson of Punjab government said that the variety PBW 725 of bread wheat has been released for cultivation in the state under irrigated timely sown conditions. The variety possesses a combination of several desirable traits like high grain yield, resistance to yellow and brown rusts, and good grain quality.     It is a double dwarf variety with an average plant height of 105 cm. Its ears are medium dense and tapering in shape with white smooth glumes. Its grains are amber, hard, medium bold and lustrous. It matures in about 154 days. Its average grain yield is 22.9 quintals per acre, which is 7.6 per cent higher than that of the pre-dominant wheat variety.     The spokesperson further said that the variety Punjab Celery 1 is the first celery variety developed by Punjab Agriculture University and has been released for cultivation in the state. Its seeds are brown in colour with characteristic odour and pungent taste. These contain 1.9 per cent essential oil with a total oil content of 20.1 per cent. The variety starts bearing flowers in March and matures in 140-150 days after transplanting. Its average seed yield is 4.46 quintals per acre. He said that very positive feedback on new wheat variety PBW 725 was received from the farmers across the state in the last crop season.  

