URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/marketing-branding/branding/upgrad-to-host-digital-marketing-conclave-for-aspiring-and-early-stage-marketers/articleshow/53520149.cms

Title : UpGrad to host Digital Marketing Conclave for aspiring and early stage marketers - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Upgrad,Ronnie Screwvala,Mayank Kumar,Lenskart,Digital Marketing Conclave

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 12.42 PM IST

Document ID : 754

Content:
  UpGrad, the online education platform for working professionals co-founded by Ronnie Screwvala and Mayank Kumar, on Wednesday said it would be hosting a Digital Marketing Conclave for early stage and aspiring digital marketers on August 6, at IIT Delhi along with the launch of their Digital Marketing program.     According to a statement, the conclave will bring together an attendance of over 250 marketers and leading industry experts representing the digital marketing and brand building ecosystem in the country to discuss and deliberate the future and scope of the landscape.     The conclave will have two keynote sessions - one from industry veteran Ashok Lalla on developments in the digital marketing landscape over the years and one from Peyush Bansal, founder, Lenskart, on building a digital first brand. The evening will also see a panel discussion on, 'What it takes to be a future ready Digital Marketer' where the panellists will discuss how internet is influencing brand building today, scope of digital marketing in traditional industries, must haves for future ready digital marketers and the industry landscape five years from now.     The panel discussion will feature HCL Technologies, head of marketing, Apurva Chamaria, PayU former CMO Prabhakar Tiwari, Madhouse COO, Milind Pathak, Zomato, SVP Growth, Pramod Rao, Harley-Davidson, director marketing, Pallavi Singh, and Web Spiders founder Kavita Jhunjhunwala.     "The digital medium is starting to play a deciding factor in brand building, acquiring, and engaging the right consumer in a digital first age. With the advent of rapid evolution in technology, it is essential for brands to take a consumer-centric approach towards engagement and digital is the most personal medium to do so. For the digital marketing industry's success, capacity building and innovation will play a key role and we have designed our program specifically based on industry requirements and global standards to give them international exposure," said Kumar in a statement.     The versatility and dynamism of the digital world makes it one of the most happening industries to thrive in, but lack of options to educate or 'skilling up' one's qualifications has stunted its growth. UpGrad aims to plug this knowledge gap with their five month long Digital Marketing program that has roped in global leaders to lecture and provide guidance to the enrolled students, shaping the next generation of brand builders and digital marketers for India.     "To become a successful marketer in today's world, you need to have an in-depth understanding of what marketing means in the digital age, how to build a brand that your customers can connect with, and achieve business goals in the process. It is no longer enough to understand marketing principles or to know about Digital Marketing tools or vehicles - it is about understanding the complete picture. At present, the industry faces an acute shortage of digital talent. The program is designed for traditional marketers, those who want to make a foray in the industry as well as existing Digital Marketers who want to advance in their careers towards general Marketing experts. It will also add a lot of value to business executives and entrepreneurs," added Screwvala.     Digital Marketing is, by far, the fastest growing ad spend category, with Digital Ad spends in India estimated to grow at 47.6% in 2016 against the overall ad spend growth of 15.5%, according to a recent Group M report. However, the Digital Marketing industry faces an acute shortage of Digital Marketing Talent, which UpGrad wishes to fulfil through its latest course offering.     UpGrad is building a portfolio of Industry partners to co-design case studies and modules and offer placement opportunities to their students post the program. The students will be provided with lifelong access to UpGrad Digital Marketing Content to help them stay updated in the rapidly evolving Digital Industry.     For more details on the conclave, click  here.  For additional details on the program, click  here  .  

