URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/infrastructure/govt-to-take-up-rs-2-lakh-cr-road-projects-in-up-gadkari/articleshow/53674140.cms

Title : Govt to take up Rs 2 lakh cr road projects in UP: Gadkari - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : varanasi-gazipur,Varanasi,Uttar Pradesh,The Bill,Road transport,Polls,Nitin gadkari,new,Lok Sabha,India,in,Bill

Date :  Aug 12, 2016, 08.56 PM IST

Document ID : 95

Content:
  VARANASI: As Uttar Pradesh gears up for assembly polls next year, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari today announced that road projects worth Rs two lakh crore will be undertaken in the state in next two years.     "We will undertake Rs 2 lakh crore projects in Uttar Pradesh in the next two years. Rs 60,000 crore projects are already underway," the Road Transport and Highways and Shipping Minister said here.     The Minister also laid foundation here of three projects -- Rs 806 crore Varanasi-Jaunpur stretch on National Highway No 56, Rs 785 crore Varanasi-Ajamgarh stretch on National Highway No 233 and Varanasi-Gazipur stretch on NH 29.     The Minister said Rs 868 crore would be spent on Varanasi-Gazipur stretch. These highway stretches are scheduled to be completed by June 2018.     Gadkari said these stretches would result in all-round development of the state by promoting seamless flow of cargo traffic and passengers, and also also promote tourism and minimise the accidents.     The Minister also said that all efforts would be made to get the new Motor Bill passed in the next session of the Parliament.     He said India accounts for about 500 road accidents daily and the new legislation will minimise road accidents and bring in overall reforms in the transport sector.     He said the new bill has been drafted as per the recommendations of the Transport Ministers from 18 states and all states have consensus on it.     The new legislation provides for heavy fines on violators of traffic rules and hefty penalty for drunk driving and various other offences.    The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in the just- concluded session of Parliament.  

