URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/deals/max-lifepromoters-negotiating-non-compete-fee-with-hdfc/articleshow/53273472.cms

Title : Max Life promoters negotiating non-compete fee with HDFC - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Standard Life,life insurance,HSBC,Financial Services,Deepak Parekh,Azim Premji

Date :  Jul 19, 2016, 06.40 AM IST

Document ID : 659

Content:
  MUMBAI: India's largest M&A; deal in the insurance business is dealing with a little-known caveat.     Promoters of Max Life and Max Financial Services are negotiating a 'non-compete fee' from HDFC Life as a condition for the proposed merger between the two sides.     Forking out such a fee will require the approval of regulators as well as minority shareholders.     A month ago, HDFC Life and Max Life said they would explore options of merging their businesses to create India's biggest private life insurer with an estimated market capitalisation of over Rs 50,000 crore.     The merger will be executed in two steps: first, Max Life (the insurer) will merge with its listed parent Max Financial Services (MFS), which owns about 68 per cent in the subsidiary; subsequently, HDFC Life will merge with Max Life paving the way for listing of HDFC Life, which till recently was independently pursuing with its plans for an IPO.     The proposed non-compete fee would have to be paid to Max Group promoters led by Analjit Singh. HDFC Chairman Deepak Parekh and HDFC Life Managing Director Amitabh Chaudhry, who are spearheading the transaction, have, in return, asked Singh to obtain the clearance of majority of minority shareholders of MFS, said three persons aware of the ongoing discussions.      Quantum of fee under negotiations   "Since MFS is a listed company, and the proposal is to pay a fee to the promoters, judicial precedence and corporate governance could require the consent of majority of the minority shareholders," said one of them.     Responding to ET's email query, a Max Group spokesman said, "Respecting the confidentiality, standstill and exclusivity period as per the agreement and in accordance with the law, we have no comment to offer."     A text message to Amitabh Chaudhry went unanswered till the time of going to press. The quantum of the proposed fee is still under negotiations. The non-compete fee for Max is reminiscent of a transaction that happened in 2012 when Japanese company Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) bought 26 per cent stake in Max New York Life Insurance Company Ltd for around Rs 2,731 crore.     It marked the exit of New York Life Insurance, the original foreign shareholder in the JV. Max India, which had the right of first refusal, bought 9.37 per cent stake from New York Life Insurance at par for Rs 182.26 crore, and, subsequently, divested the same number of shares to the new Japanese partner for Rs 984.45 crore.     The transaction generated a windfall gain of Rs 802.22 crore to Max India. But the fundamental difference, analysts say, between the New York Life-MSI trade and the one contemplated now is the fact that Max was not vertically split three ways as it is now.     "In 2012, there were only two stakeholders-Max and New York Life. Analjit charged a premium for the transfer of rights to a new foreign shareholder. Now, post the restructuring, the insurance business is housed under the listed MFS. And the proposed HDFC-Max merger will also involve the merger of Max Life and MFS as the first step. Thus MFS shareholder approval is key," said one of the officials mentioned above on condition of anonymity as the talks are still in private domain.     HDFC Group is expected to own about 65 per cent stake in the proposed merged entity while Max Group will own the remaining 35 per cent. Max Group founder Analjit Singh, who controls 30.45 per cent in Max Financial Services, will end up holding 7-9 per cent in the final merged entity.     Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance owns 26 per cent in Max Life, India's fourth largest private life insurer, while the balance equity is with Axis Bank. After a Max Group rejig in January, Singh (62) became the founder and chairman emeritus of MFS while former head of HSBC India Naina Lal Kidwai was appointed as chairman.     Singh stepped down as chairman of Max India as part of a three-way split handing over charge of the group he founded to a professional management led by Rahul Khosla.     HDFC owns 61.63 per cent in HDFC Life with UK's Standard Life holding 35 per cent. About 1 per cent is owned by Azim Premji. For HDFC Life, the total premiums for the year ended March 31, 2016 were Rs16,313 crore and the total assets under management (AUM) stood at Rs74,247 crore.     For Max Life, the total premiums for the year ended March 31, 2016 were Rs9,216 crore and total AUM Rs35,824 crore. On Monday, shares of Max Financial, with a market value of Rs13,487.33 crore, was down 1.51 per cent to end the day at Rs 505.10 per share.     But it rose as much as 20 per cent in intraday trading, the most since Max Group restructured into three companies in January. HDFC shares were down 1.11 per cent to Rs1345.20 a piece on Monday. Its current market cap is Rs 2,12,816.81crore.  

