URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/twenty-stocks-in-focus-on-tuesday-19-july-2016/articleshow/53275884.cms

Title : Twenty stocks in focus on Tuesday, 19 July 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro Ltd,Wipro,Syndicate Bank,SAIL,onward technologies,MindTree,JSW Energy,Jaiprakash Power Ventures,Jaiprakash Power,IndiaBulls Real,Idea Cellular,HUL,Hotel Leela,Hindustan UniLever,Hinduja Foundries,HDFC Ltd,Gruh,Gati Ltd,Gati,fine sciences,Exide Industries Ltd,Exide,Dabur,Bank of Baroda,Adani Power

Date :  Jul 19, 2016, 08.02 AM IST

Document ID : 919

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open higher on Monday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.     "We believe that the market is showing considerable restraint on the back of increased volatility through Geo political news from around the world," Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha told ETMarkets.com.     "The markets look to be in a bull trend overall, while the short term remains more uncertain," he added.                    Here is a list of top twenty stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   HUL: Hindustan Unilever (HUL) reported a 9.7 per cent year-on-year (YoY) growth in net profit at Rs 1,174 crore for the quarter ended June 30, which was largely in line with consensus estimates.    Wipro:  Wipro Ltd is expected to report 3.6 per cent year-on-year fall and 5.7 per cent quarter-on-quarter net profit to Rs 2187.80 crores for the quarter ended June 30.    Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd:  The company reported a standalone net loss of Rs 196.16 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 66.96 crore in the year-ago period, Jaiprakash Power Ventures said in a filing to BSE.    Gruh Finance:  A subsidiary of HDFC Ltd, has reported 19.6 per cent rise in net profit at Rs 60.18 crore for the first quarter ended June 30.    MindTree:  Mid-sized IT firm Mindtree posted a 3.7 per cent drop in consolidated net profit at Rs 123.5 crore in the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal.    JSW Energy & Jaiprakash Power:  Sajjan Jindal-promoted JSW Energy will acquire Jaiprakash Power Ventures' 500 MW thermal plant at Bina in Madhya Pradesh at base enterprise value of Rs 2,700 crore.    Camline Fine Sciences:  The company said that State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Gujarat, has granted environment clearance to set up a manufacuring facility for hydroquinone/catechol and its downstream products at the Dahej SEZ. It had investment plans of Rs 180 crore for the unit.    Idea Cellular:  India's No. 3 carrier, has slashed effective rates of its 4G and 3G Internet packs for prepaid and post-paid customers who use large data packs, offering up to 67 per cent more benefits for the same price.    GATI:  Macquarie Bank has sprung a surprise and decided to go back on its bet on leading logistics and express delivery service provider Gati Ltd, by cashing out of its entire 5.6 per cent stake in the company.    Hotel Leela:  The Delhi High Court has directed Hotel Leelaventure to pay Airports Authority of India (AAI) arrears of Rs 258 crore in relation to the land leased by the airport operator near Mumbai airport, said a media report.    Onward Technologies Ltd:  The company posted results for the first quarter ended 30th June, 2016. The net profit for the quarter was at Rs.1.2 crore. The total income was at Rs.53.1 crore as against Rs.47.6 crore year-on-year (YoY).    Exide Industries:  Battery maker Exide Industries Ltd reported a 25.9 per cent increase in net profit to Rs 196.05 crore in the first quarter ended June 30, on the back of higher sales.    Bank of Baroda:  Unions of public sector banks have given a strike call on July 29 to protest against reforms in the banking sector.    Hinduja Foundries:  Hinduja Group company Hinduja Foundries reported narrowing of its standalone net loss to Rs 36.57 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2016.    Nalco: S  tate-run Nalco inked a pact with the Union Ministry of Mines to meet revenue target Rs 7,100 crore revenue from operations, said a media report.    Dabur India:  Consumer goods firm Dabur has acquired South African cosmetics manufacturing and trading firm Discaria Trading for an undisclosed amount.    SAIL:  Steel behemoth SAIL's market share in domestic consumption has been declining since 2013-14, Parliament was informed on Monday.    Indiabulls Real Estate:  The company said that it has raised Rs 20 crore through issue of non-convertible debentures on private placement basis.    Syndicate Bank:  The bank said it has raised Rs 930 crore in the form of unsecured non-convertible (UNC). The capital was inclusive of the Greenshoe option, which allows benefactors to sell investors more shares than formerly planned by the issuer, the bank said.    Adani Power:  Adani Power has sought shareholders' nod to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore through issuance of equity shares or other instruments like GDR, ADR or debentures, increasing its earlier borrowing limit.    Tata Steel:  Tata Steel said that it will seek shareholders nod to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore through various debt securities including redeemable non-convertible debentures (NCDs).          

