URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/pressure-to-meet-targets-and-debt-management-challenges-bring-role-of-cfo-under-limelight/articleshow/53731447.cms

Title : Pressure to meet targets and debt management challenges bring role of CFO under limelight - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro,volatility,Retail,people,Mumbai,Jobs,Infiniti Retail,Business

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.26 AM IST

Document ID : 655

Content:
  MUMBAI: When Subhanu Saxena resigned as chief executive officer of Mumbai-based drug maker Cipla on August 12, the company named Umang Vohra to take over as managing director and global CEO. Vohra joined Cipla in October as global chief financial & strategy officer and was elevated as global chief operating officer early this year.     In May last year, when Ajit Joshi stepped down as CEO of Infiniti Retail, the company that manages the Tata Group's consumer electronics business under the brand Croma, the company chose CFO Avijit Mitra to replace him. Honeywell Automation appointed former Wipro CFO Suresh Senapaty as chairman in March. CFOs are increasingly taking centre stage in boardrooms and the churn in their ranks in India Inc. has been the highest in 2016, with over 60 new appointments, according to estimates by RGF Executive Search.     Pressure to meet quarterly financial targets, growing business volatility, debt management uncertainty and complexity and rising costs have made cost management a fine art that's brought the CFO under the klieg lights. "There is a complete shift in the kind of CFO profile and the way their jobs are being structured," said R Suresh, CEO of RGF Executive Search. "Earlier, their job was primarily seen as raising capital. Now, they are also allocators of capital and involved in creating investment vehicles and improving capital performance." A CFO at a consumer-facing business said companies have been grappling with volatile exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates.     "It has almost become jugglery," he said. "Raising capital, dealing with investors and lenders while understanding the evolving nature of the business and hunt for opportunities to grow has become the new mandate of CFOs. This needs a lot of operational and managerial role skills that come in beyond accounting." Globally, there have been instances of CFOs becoming CEOs, such as Scott Davis at UPS, Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo, Joe Kaeser of Siemens AG and Gregory Hayes of United Technologies.     "CFOs are becoming company leaders and are being viewed as more of a strategic business partner," said Prabir Jha, Global Chief People Officer at Cipla, which appointed Kedar Upadhye as CFO on August 1. "The new CFOs are looking beyond books and numbers. His chief accounting job, the standard hygiene role, has been pushed down and instead, CFOs are spearheading investment decisions and licensing new ventures." Many Indian companies are offering their CFOs strategy and crisis management roles to get them more focused on operations and planning as part of the grooming process for leadership positions. While recruiting, many companies are hiring CFOs with management degrees rather than financial qualifications alone.     "Earlier, the CFO's job was the sole domain of chartered accountants...now, many corporates have started hiring MBAs as CFOs instead of CAs, which supports the changing role," said Jha. "The classical role of CFO has morphed from mere account compliance to more enterprise risk-mitigator and trusted advisor," said the CFO of a company. "This is viewed more as partners shaping the next generation of business ideas."  

