URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/frugal-computing-is-rising-in-the-cloud/articleshow/53486062.cms

Title : Frugal computing is rising in the cloud - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Virtualisation,TRAI,net,Cloud API

Date : Aug 01, 2016, 11.14 AM IST

Document ID : 190

Content:
  By Mishi Choudhary    Trai's consultation paper on cloud computing presents valuable information gleaned from industry analysis and observation of other government policy documents. It raises important issues that other government policymakers around the world are facing.     But the paper does not take into account the most important issues. For many who talk about cloud computing, this technology is distant, hazy, on gigantic scale, as though seen through the wrong end of a telescope. For us free software enthusiasts, it's easy to understand why those who don't have daily experience with technology at human scale have trouble seeing its social importance.     The purpose of the software techniques--virtualisation and storage pooling--we call 'the cloud', is to make computing capacity fluid and place-independent. In a cloud, network, data and computer programmes migrate around the net, so our data processing can occur on any hardware, and be stored anywhere in immense pools of storage that are efficient and cost-effective to use.For large businesses and governments, this means using computing resources frugally .     In a world without virtualisation and storage pooling, computers are always partially idle because programmes that could use their power aren't running, and data is inefficiently stored because everyone buys a silo for his barn, but doesn't need all the space.     This flexibility doesn't only mean inequalities between computing resources and requirements can be smoothed out inside large enterprises. It also means computing resources can be a public utility , so that access to computing resources isn't determined entirely by the ability to pay.     Cloud APIs are the roadways of the 21st century.     They set the rules by which data and computing resources move to where they can work most efficiently , reducing cost and complexity. The consultation should expand to include questions such as: * How can cloud computing bring enhanced access to technical resources for learning and "citizen computing" to all of our people, regardless of ability to pay?     * How can cloud infrastructure leap out of the data centre into the cheapest and most accessible hardware to which citizens have access, so that everyone can join "the cloud" as they can attach their phones to the Net?     * How can free software in the cloud enable young people to be more than users of platforms, and become instead skilled builders, using the resources commonly available in the cloud to make their living, improving the lives of people and businesses around them?     It is perfectly right for Trai to consider, as this paper does, the role of government in purchasing software and regulating market participants offering digital services. But something even more important will be lost if Trai does not also consider these technological disruptions from the vantage of the social architect, understanding how these new technical materials can be used to improve the lives of ordinary people, and the intellectual development of Indian society.    (The author is a technology lawyer practising in New York and Delhi) 

