URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/nsg-top-of-mind-as-india-may-host-new-zealand-prime-minister-john-key-in-october/articleshow/53763074.cms

Title : NSG top of mind as India may host New Zealand Prime Minister John Key in October - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,technology,Prime Minister,people,Nuclear Suppliers Group,NPT treaty,New Delhi,new,John Key,India,in,ET,China

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 02.24 AM IST

Document ID : 75

Content:
  NEW DELHI: India is in talks for a visit by New Zealand Prime Minister John Key, possibly in early October, with an eye on securing support for membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group ahead of its Vienna meeting in November.     New Zealand, an NSG member, had raised questions about India's entry into the exclusive club, based on its stand that only signatories of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty are eligible to join the group. India hasn't signed the NPT treaty. The primary objective of hosting Key is to elicit his country's support for NSG membership, people familiar with the development told ET.     While China blocked India's entry into the NSG at the Seoul plenary meeting in June, New Zealand raised questions about India's bid, citing non-proliferation concerns. Although it did not take sides with China, Wellington expressed concern over admitting India would adversely affect the non-proliferation regime.     While New Zealand is a close US ally, the Obama administration, which lobbied for India's case among NSG members, could not fully influence Wellington. Australia, another strong proponent of India's entry into NSG, had also moved its neighbour on the issue.     India wants membership of the NSG to get enhanced and uninterrupted access to nuclear technology, fuel and materials needed to expand its expanding civil nuclear programme. Decisions by the group are taken by consensus.     After the Seoul plenary, New Zealand High Commissioner to India Grahame Morton said his country only wanted norms to be fixed to admit non-NPT states into the 48-nation NSG, which controls global trade in nuclear technology. Morton said the NSG's doors for India were not closed and constructive discussion would lead to a solution. "It is a process and talks will continue," he said.     It is understood that while the top Kiwi political leadership is favourably disposed to India's entry, the New Zealand foreign ministry has been dragging its feet on the matter because of India's non-NPT status. India is hoping Key's visit would help bridge that gap, people familiar with the issue said.     China's chief negotiator at the Seoul NSG plenary is expected to visit India in the near future to discuss technical matters pertaining to India's entry into the NSG.     President Pranab Mukherjee's trip to New Zealand in May did not affect its stand on NSG membership for India. The visit, the first by an Indian president, was otherwise successful, with New Zealand pushing for a free trade agreement with India and lobbying for former PM Helen Clark's candidature as the next UN Secretary General.     In 2008, New Zealand was among the last few NSG members to agree to a clean waiver for India to carry out nuclear commerce without becoming a member of the group.     Referring to non-NPT signatory nations, New Zealand's foreign ministry states on its website: "...We continue to encourage these states to join the treaty as non-nuclear weapon states and to place all of their nuclear facilities under comprehensive International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards."     New Zealand is a member of a group of NPT parties called the New Agenda Coalition, which focuses on identifying and advocating practical steps on nuclear disarmament. The other members are Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico and South Africa.  

