URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/promoters-finding-family-trusts-a-safe-haven-to-park-personal-assets/articleshow/53661539.cms

Title : Promoters finding family trusts a safe haven to park personal assets - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vishwas Pathak,promoters,personal assets,Hemal Mehta,family trusts

Date :  Aug 12, 2016, 04.56 AM IST

Document ID : 669

Content:
  MUMBAI: Many promoters of companies with stressed loans are insulating their assets by transferring them into private family trusts fearing banks could go after their personal assets for defaulting on loans.     In past one year or so, say industry insiders, many promoters are creating family trust structures, where all the wealth is held by the trust. Banks seeking to recover dues by targeting the promoters' personal wealth would find it difficult as it would involve a long and tortuous legal route with an uncertain outcome.        The trusts are structured in a way where the promoter would not be a trustee and hold only about 5-10 per cent stake in the family trust. Even where personal property is put as a guarantee, banks may not be able to acquire these personal assets.     A majority stake in the family trust, that owns all personal assets, would now be held by the wife, son, parents and other family members who do not have any stake in the company.     "While family trusts were traditionally created by families that have large real estate holdings, many promoters are now going back to the drawing board and creating these structures. While the motivation for creating the family trusts vary, like succession planning or planning for estate duty (if any), in some cases some promoters who have stressed loans are also evaluating such a structure," said Hemal Mehta, partner, Deloitte Haskins & Sells.     A Mumbai promoter of a Rs 1,500 crore infrastructure company is creating a family trust. This comes about a year after the infrastructure company's loans started getting stressed.     "The fear is that the banks could even attach personal properties," said a tax expert who helped the promoter in creating the trust. The promoter now owns only about 5 per cent in the trust while his family has the remaining stake.     another case, two Kolkata-based businessmen are creating a family trust. The promoters — two brothers — own a listed company that has already defaulted on a Rs 200 crore loan.     Both the brothers are now looking to create the trust and transfer all real estate, gold and other family wealth into it. "Both the brothers combined would not hold more than 10 per cent stake in the trust," said a lawyer helping the family.     However, in some cases even family structures may not be able to help the promoters, say industry trackers. In some cases some of the lenders have also started taking personal guarantees from the promoters not to transfer their property to anyone.     "Many lenders while obtaining guarantees are getting declaration from such promoter or a personal guarantor that they will not transfer their declared assets without the permission of lenders," said Vishwas Pathak director of Universal Trustees, a firm that specialises in managing family trusts and corporate trusts.     "Many lenders do not do due-diligence on the assets of a guarantor before they take a personal guarantee," said Anand Desai, managing partner of law firm DSK Legal.    ET view: Don't game the system   Trusts are meant to preserve the wealth of the family and to avoid legal disputes. There is nothing wrong in setting up trusts. It is also a bankruptcy remote structure in jargon, and ringfenced from creditors.     But promoters setting up trusts to game the system is plain wrong. If found to be in violation of the law, banks could extract their pound of flesh. Hopefully, the bankruptcy code will abolish delays in the resolution of bad loans, and enable banks to dispense with personal guarantees of loans as it inhibits entrepreneurship.  

