URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//housing-conundrum-ficci-report-on-urban-infrastructure-reveals-uncomfortable-truths/articleshow/11856058.cms

Title : Housing conundrum: FICCI report on urban infrastructure reveals uncomfortable truths - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : OECD,Municipal Corporation,Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission,FICCI report on urban infrastructure,EPC

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 05.45 AM IST

Document ID : 438

Content:
      In 2001, about 286 million persons were living in urban areas of India and it was the second largest urban population in the world. According to the Registrar General & Census Commissioner of India, the urban population in India over the next 25 years is expected to grow 38 per cent and become 534 million in 2026. Furthermore, as per the Census of India, 2001, 640 cities/towns in 26 States/Union territories have reported slum populations.             Andhra Pradesh has the largest number of towns (77) reporting slums followed by Uttar Pradesh (69), Tamil Nadu (63) and Maharashtra (61). As many as 42.6 million people lived in slums in 2001. This constitutes 15 percent of the total urban population of the country and 22.6 percent of the urban population of the states/union territories reporting slums.             Nearly, 11.2 million of the total slum population of the country is in Maharashtra followed by Andhra Pradesh 5.2, Uttar Pradesh 4.4 and West Bengal 4.1 million.             2) The need for up-gradation and development of urban infrastructure and urban services cannot be overstated. The present levels of urban infrastructure are grossly inadequate to meet the demand of the existing urban population.             3) To provide some perspective, it is estimated that India's population will grow to 1.7 billion by 2050 and that rapid urbanization will add nearly 900 million people to Indian cities. City capacity will need to grow nearly 400 per cent in less than 50 years.             4) The inexorable demographic surge in urban India is fueled by the growing disparity between rural and urban per capita income. From near parity in 1950, in the 1990's the ratio of urban per capita income to rural per capita income was nearly 4:1. As per the 66 round of National Sample Survey (NSS) for the period July 2009 - June 2010, the divide has accentuated to approx 9:1.             It has been estimated that by 2025 i.e. in 14 years, nearly half a billion Indians will need new, urban homes. This is equal to the needs of China, North America and Western Europe put together. In this context, the rationale for an aggressive and ambitious policy of affordable housing cannot be over emphasized. This aspect is elaborated elsewhere in the report.             6) There is a tremendous pressure on civic infrastructure systems like water supply, sewerage and drainage, solid waste management, etc. Recent data suggest that water supply is available for 2.9 hours per day across cities and towns. The nonrevenue water that includes physical and revenue losses, accounts for 40-60 percent of total water supply. About 30 to 50 per cent households do not have sewerage connections and less than 20 percent of total waste water is treated.             Solid waste systems are severely stressed. The state of services reflects the deterioration in the quality of city environments. As per 54th round of National Sample Survey, 70 per cent of urban households are being served by tap and 21 per cent by Tube well or hand pump.             66 per cent of urban households reported having their principal source of water within their premises while 32 per cent had it within 0.2 Km. 41 per cent had sole access to their principal source of drinking water and 59 per cent were sharing a public source.             As per the 54th round of NSS, 26 per cent of households had no latrines, 35 per cent were using septic tank and 22 per cent were using sewerage system. Sewerage connections varied from 48 per cent to 70 per cent. It is estimated that about 1,15,000 MT of Municipal Solid Waste is generated daily in the country. Per capita waste generation in cities varies between 0.2 - 0.6 kg per day and it is increasing by 13 per cent per annum.             In contrast, per capita waste generation in the OECD is approximately 1.5 kg per day. The current waste generation in Delhi is approximately 8000 MT/day and on current trends will reach 15000 MT/day by 2020. It is estimated that Delhi will have scientific waste management facilities for only 6000 MT by 2012.             7) In addition to the gap in available infrastructure to meet the requirements of urban centers in India, there is a daunting shortfall in available funds for improving and maintaining basic urban infrastructure.             8) The traditional paradigm for financing urban infrastructure consisted of internal accruals of local bodies and loans and grants from the State Government. This was augmented by directed credit from institutions such as HUDCO and LIC linked to State Government guarantees. A small component of bilateral and multilateral assistance was also available.             9) The drawbacks in the traditional institutional framework led to a severe back log in investments given the inadequacy of government budgetary support. Implementation of projects within this framework has led to poor utilization of resources on account of lack of project development and management skills. This was compounded by lack of adequate financial management skills.              10) According to the Economic Survey of India 2011, The Eleventh Five Year Plan had estimated the total fund requirement for implementation of the target for urban water supply, sewerage and sanitation, drainage, and solid waste management to be Rs 1,29,237 crore and that for urban transport to be Rs 1,32,590 crore.             According to estimates based on the City Development Plans (CDPs) prepared by the States under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) launched in 2005-06, the requirements for both urban infrastructure services and urban transport were estimated to be as high as Rs 8,00,000 crore.             11) While the conception and implementation of projects under JNNURM has led to significant capacity augmentation and efficiency gains particularly in respect of urban transport, the JNNURM project has highlighted several issues and challenges. These range from capacity building at the ULB level to the need for ULBs to become financially self sustaining - it is a moot point whether the huge dollops of credit under JNNURM enhance the financial status of the tier II and III ULBs or create a dependence syndrome.             12) Global experience, particularly in the US, suggests that the capital markets can have an important role in financing urban infrastructure. In India, for a variety of reasons elaborated elsewhere in the report, the contribution of the capital market to urban infrastructure has been miniscule. As against a total Bond Market size in India of $40             2 billion, the entire quantum of borrowings by ULBs from the capital market is less than Rs 200 crores per year. Against this backdrop, the committee is of the firm view that the creation of a vibrant market for Municipal Bonds is intrinsic to improving the financial health of the ULBs. The report explores possible options whereby JNNURM and other State/Central Government financial flows can be used as leverage thereby significantly enhancing the overall quantum of resources available to the ULBs.        MAIN ISSUES        A large number of issues have been identified as being the key drivers for the malaise of the urban infrastructure sector. Certain issues are considered by the Committee as being critical issues, which if addressed directly, can have a multiplier and immediate impact on the urban sector and the delivery of urban services. It should, perhaps, be clarified that the issues are listed in the random order of the Committees' deliberations and the sequential order does not signify or detract from the relative importance of the issue.             The key areas of intervention for the improvement of urban infrastructure are: Improved planning at regional, city and area level Transportation infrastructure for better mobility through public transport, improved walkability and most importantly a policy on parking Urban services: sewerage, drainage and water supply, power distribution Solid waste management Housing including affordable housing Social infrastructure such as parks, playgrounds and leisure spaces Preservation of heritage precincts             a) There is extensive international experience and global good practice that demonstrates the inefficiency of the traditional procurement processes pursued by the State PWDs and the ULBs in India. Typically, quotations are invited for EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contracts and the tender is awarded to the lowest quote (L1). A significant drawback of this approach is the total absence of any O&M; component.              b) A more prudent approach which is both cost effective in terms of total life cycle cost and superior levels of service is available in terms of "Performance Based Maintenance Contracts" (PBMC). In this approach, instead of bidding a lump sum amount, for example, building/rehabilitating a road, the L1 contractor would be required to build and maintain the road for a specified duration, say seven years or so.             Accordingly, payments to the contractor are staggered over the seven year period with an initial lumpy payment linked to the completion of the road building/rehabilitation project. Specific performance standards in terms of surface riding quality and other qualitative and quantitative tests are specified. The performance parameters over the duration of the PBMC are independently monitored /audited by a third party.             c) The efficacy of the above approach is underscored by the contrasting experience of PWD roads in Delhi with the DND Flyway. The latter since its commissioning in 2001 has carried approximately 250 million vehicles in 10 years without an overlay to the DND Flyway. The climatic rainfall and vehicular loads for PWD roads in Delhi are near identical and yet they are subject to periodic/repeated overlays.             Indian cities compare favorably with their global counterparts in terms of macro planning norms. It is accepted practice that the global FSI (Floor Space Index) or FAR (Floor Area Ratio) for cities or towns is 1.0 or 0.9. The Indian experience, however, marks a radical departure from global practice in adopting the global city wide FSI or FAR for individual plots. In Cities such as New York or Singapore, the FSI/FAR for individual plots can extend to 5 or 7. Given the scarcity and high value of urban land, the accepted international solution is to go vertical.             A sprawling urban spread comprising flat low rise structures usually G+5 i.e. ground plus five floors, is more appropriate for an era of horse drawn carriages than high volume modern transport systems based on the internal combustion engine and beyond.             a) The social and economic consequence of persisting with archaic planning norms is profound and significant. It is well established that the per capita and per unit cost of utilities is invariably lower in a high rise conurbation than in a flat low rise sprawl with a large footprint. Apart from the issue of infrastructure provisioning, the low density planning norms have manifold implications for creating slums and urban impoverishment.             Flat low rise urban sprawls spread over a large geographic area compound the need for efficient urban transport. Ironically, the low density low rise model was perhaps motivated by cost considerations i.e. the per sq ft assumed cost in a low rise being lower than a high rise, leads to lumpy public investment in transport systems. In other words, the private dweller/owner of the low rise unit is being massively subsidized by public expenditure.             As an illustration, the metro system built in Delhi at huge public cost can only yield sub optimal benefits in a flat low rise environment. There is a cogent case for significantly relaxing the planning norms of FSI/FAR of 1, along and adjacent to the metro corridor etc.             b) Admittedly, the pernicious consequences of a flat low rise planning norm are more readily visible in dense urban conurbations than in low population towns/urban centers. This should not, however, mask the fact that these norms also act as barriers to growth that constrain the development of smaller towns/urban centers.             c) The Committee makes far reaching recommendations both in respect of rationalizing the planning/building norms commensurate with advances in technology and growth in urban transport as also arguing the case for a more socially equitable utilization of state owned property /space. The latter with illustrations drawn from a case study of         Delhi        a) At the core of the urban mess in India is the fiscal and financial un-sustainability of ULBs which, paradoxically, is often at variance with the economic growth and prosperity visible in their catchment areas. To cite some examples which are, perhaps, not wholly inappropriate; the growth of Property Taxes in Delhi visa-vis the increase in value of the underlying property as well as the Municipal Corporation of Delhi's (MCD) revenue realization from advertising as a percentage of the total advertising spend in its catchment area.             b) The argument that a weak economic base leads to weak and fragile institutions may, perhaps, have had some relevance at a certain stage of the development cycle. To posit the same argument in the context of urban Mumbai or New Delhi with real estate prices on par with Manhattan or Tokyo, is no longer tenable.             In Part II, the Committee rearticulates several initiatives, culled from global best practice in financing the urban story.             a) As a corollary to the pure 'construction mentality' of the ULBs is the neglect or complete lack of emphasis to the operation and maintenance of services and service standards. The ULB/Government procurement in relation to urban infrastructure focuses more on construction of the facility rather than on the long term operation and maintenance of the facility and ensuring service of specified standards is provided.             The Urban Authorities generally seek to procure a constructed facility and look at operation and maintenance as either to be undertaken by the authority itself or through short term sub-contracts.             b) There is no conscious and discernable attempt by ULB/Government Agencies to focus on operation and maintenance of urban infrastructure facilities or ensure that the facilities achieve a specific minimum service standard.             c) The traditional argument for poor quality of service and service standards is the incapacity or unwillingness to pay. Given the relative success in privatizing some ULB services in the larger metros, this argument is beginning to wear thin and a more probable explanation lies in a mindset incapable or unwilling to charge.             a) There is no framework governing or providing for maintenance of common spaces particularly in areas such as markets, housing colonies, bridges, footpaths, street lighting, play-grounds, common green and open areas etc.             b) Global best practice clearly suggests, particularly in cities such as Barcelona, Chicago and many others worthy of emulation, that rapid urbanization need not be a synonym for ugliness or proliferation of slums. A fairly common though suspect argument that is often touted is that urban aesthetics cannot take precedence over provision of basic services and amenities.             The Committee is of the view that this "either /or" view is misplaced and an over simplification. It should be incumbent on all ULBs to promote and create public spaces which enhance the quality of urban life.             c) Specifically, the Committee notes that in Delhi, the open spaces in markets such as Vasant Vihar, Lajpat Nagar or even Sarojini Nagar in Delhi are poorly maintained or as is more usually the case, there is no maintenance at all despite some sporadic ones.    

