URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/are-you-a-manager-follow-these-5-ps-to-keep-the-team-happy/articleshow/53492503.cms

Title : Are you a manager? Follow these 5 Ps to keep the team happy - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : workplace,Poonacha Machaiah,Manager,Britain’s Healthiest Workplace

Date : Aug 02, 2016, 09.27 AM IST

Document ID : 280

Content:
 By Poonacha Machaiah    We work well when we are well for work! This simple adage is all that employee well-being is about and yet organisations are wary of adopting it wholeheartedly. Focus on employee well-being is construed as a waste of critical work time as there is seemingly no direct correlation to important business outcomes.     A study by Britain's Healthiest Workplace (BHW) in 2014, has shown that employees experiencing high stress levels and low physical activity at work are causing companies in the United Kingdom, primarily in the finance and healthcare sectors, to lose up to 27 days of productive time per employee each year. Financial implications of this productivity loss are estimated to be several billions pounds a year.     A similar research by Gallup Inc. in 2015 revealed that the benefits of adding well-being to employee engagement are numerous and essential to increase employee productivity and in turn organization growth. Over an observation period of six months, employees who were well-engaged showed 8 per cent fewer unhealthy days than the average, while those who were both engaged and prospering in their well-being had 38 per cent fewer unhealthy days. This study also goes a step further to systematically link lack of employee engagement to increased absenteeism and lower levels of performance and overall productivity. Jim Harter, Gallup's chief scientist of workplace management and well-being noted, "Employees are probably more freed up if they have high well-being and high engagement, because they don't have a lot of things holding them back. They can use their energy to engage their customers."     For any well-being initiative to have the desired impact, it must cater to all the aspects of well-being namely exercise, nutrition, sleep, personal growth and relationships. The most effective of promoting these elements is by following the 5 Ps of well-being: -     ·Predict - Being aware of employee morale and paying attention to signs of disengagement     ·Prevent - Taking proactive measures to boost employee engagement and well-being     ·Personalise - Introducing well-being initiatives that cater to employees as an individual, not just another number     ·Process - Identifying and setting up tools and programs to positively affect the health and wellness of employees     ·Participate - Encouraging employees to participate in corporate well-being initiatives     Research regarding today's technology-empowered sedentary lifestyle has proved that 95 per cent chronic diseases (hypertension, obesity, cardiovascular disease, type-2 diabetes and certain types of cancer) are due to poor lifestyle choices, and if addressed, at an opportune time, are also preventable. Add to this the fact that we spend most of our life at work, and there is ample reason why employee benefits need to go beyond the usual perks, food, drink and monetary incentives.     In the US, according to Gallup Inc., 49.5 per cent of employees are not engaged and 16.5 per cent are actively disengaged resulting in poor productivity and approximately $500 bn loss in sales. Thus, an essential part of any corporate well-being strategy is ensuring that employees feel cared for. A starting point could be detailing the make-up of the workforce and carrying out a well-planned combination of:     -Visual cues, workshops and awareness drives to help employees tackle issues such as smoking, overuse of alcohol, poor diet, lack of physical activity and high stress levels     -Timely access to regular health check-up and medical experts for health risk assessment and consultation     -Add a slew of engagement activities that encourage employees to make positive lifestyle behaviour changes     Employee well-being in its most basic form is creating a happy and healthy work environment, that values them as both people and employees, and brings out the best in them on a day-to-day basis. When an employee knows his employer is looking out for his best interest, he is bound to do what's right for the greater business good. And when this thought process is superbly reinforced by well-crafted and wisely communicated policies and resources that focus on improving the overall wellbeing of employees, organisational growth is a given.    Poonacha Machaiah is the co-founder of Jiyo. It is a well-being platform that he started along with internationally-renowned physician and author Deepak Chopra. He is the founder and CEO of 'ABOVE - A Bunch of Versatile Entrepreneurs', a company he had founded in 2008.   

