URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/yatra-goes-mini-to-tap-data-conscious-smartphone-users/articleshow/53711374.cms

Title : Yatra goes 'mini' to tap data-conscious smartphone users - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : yatra,Travel,Retail,people,new,India,car,budget,APP

Date :  Aug 15, 2016, 07.26 PM IST

Document ID : 185

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Travel portal Yatra has launched a 'mini' version of its mobile app, which is smaller in size and consumes less data, to help data-conscious users book train and bus tickets and make hotel bookings.     Yatra already gets about 50 per cent of its traffic and 40 per cent of bookings via mobile phones.     "There is a large segment of people and one that is quickly growing is buying entry-level smartphones. They are conscious of the size of the apps and the data these apps consume. The mini app, which is about 4 MB in size, will help such users book train and bus tickets and make reservations at budget hotels," Yatra.com President Sharat Dhall told PTI.     The mother app will still be available with the entire bouquet of products, he added.     SBI to hire new PR agency for corporate communication * State Bank of India (SBI) has invited applications for empanelment of a new public relations (PR) agency on retainership basis to assist in reorienting the bank's corporate communication strategy.     "The bank has decided to empanel a new PR agency for the bank on retainership basis for 3 years," SBI said in a notice.     According to the Request for Proposal (RFP), the last date for the receipt of proposal is August 31 and the date of opening of the bid is September 2.     Currently, PR activities of the bank are managed by a Mumbai-based firm. Besides external communications, the agency will assist the bank in publishing internal house journals or magazines, employee communications and other similar tasks.     7th pay panel to boost consumption in consumer segments:Report * The Seventh Pay Commission is likely to significantly boost consumption in consumer-related segments, says a report.     "Supported by falling oil prices, easing credit conditions and growing income among the middle-income class, urban demand is probably seeing an uptick. The recent rise in retail loans, car sales and consumer durables probably indicates that consumption demand growth is improving and is likely to get another boost after implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission during 2016-17," the report by Hansa Cequity said.     The Centre in June had approved recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission, which will grant salary hike to over one crore government employees and pensioners.  

