URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/personal-finance-news/what-we-are-reading-for-week-ending-august-19-2016/articleshow/53771099.cms

Title : What we are reading: For week ending August 19, 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : tips,money,investing,interest rates,Inflation,finances,Federal Reserve

Date : Aug 19, 2016, 04.32 PM IST

Document ID : 333

Content:
  At ET Wealth, we know that your time is precious. There is information overload for investors and not all of it would be useful and helpful in decision making. And, it's true even for us.     So, along with the ET Wealth's daily dose of articles on personal finance, we will help bring to your notice some truly interesting articles/blogs/videos in the realm of personal finance from across the globe. These are interesting pieces we have read over the week and found them useful enough to share with you.     'What we are reading' will come to you every Friday for a relaxed weekend reading.     Here are five interesting articles from our Recommended Reading list this week:     25 Investing Myths Debunked    Like most areas of personal finance, Investing has more than its share of myths. Before you base your decisions on some of the more popular investing misconceptions, it's important to do your research and to know that plans typically are not one-size-fits-all.     9 Ways to Think Like an Olympian to Master Your Money    You may not think you have much in common with an Olympian, but when you put these world-class athletes' level of commitment, perseverance, and practice in the context of your own finances, you might be surprised at just how alike you are - or, at least, how alike you can be.     Now the Fed Really Won't Raise Interest Rates    The Federal Reserve will meet in a little more than a month to determine whether the economy is strong enough, and inflation is enough of a threat, to raise interest rates for the first time since last December. That meeting is sure to be an interesting one, since the data is somewhat ambiguous.     Fund managers: Interest rates are dangerously low    The idea is that central banks can slash interest rates as far as possible, but cheap money cannot force households to spend or businesses to invest. Instead governments could try to take up the slack and spend on major investment projects, or cut taxes to put more money in customers' pockets.     15 Money Tips You Should Ignore    Not all money advice is helpful. Some so-called Tips could even set you up for financial failure. Everyone has an opinion on how you should handle your money, but you'd be better off ignoring these 15 tips.   

