URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/huawei-p9-review-delight-for-the-shutterbugs/articleshow/53742024.cms

Title : Huawei P9 review: Delight for the shutterbugs - The Economic Times



Date : Aug 17, 2016, 07.16 PM IST

Document ID : 396

Content:
Rating: *** Top features * Top-notch build quality * Impressive cameras * Quick fingerprint sensor  Despite having the veritable distinction of being the largest telecommunication equipment manufacturer in the world, Huawei's success in the Indian subcontinent can be considered only as nascent. While the Nexus 6P firmly established the fact that Huawei is very much capable of building best-in-class flagships, the success of the 'Honor' line-up has proved that the company can do equally well when it comes to affordable yet feature-packed phones.  But Huawei is going all guns blazing with its newest launch in India, the P9. Unveiled at an event in New Delhi, the Huawei P9 has (almost) everything one would expect from a flagship-class droid. But what truly sets it apart is the dual-camera setup at the rear. Engineered in collaboration with German imaging pioneer Leica, the P9 has two 12MP sensors, with one being RGB and other monochrome.  This all sounds very exciting, but what about the rest of the goodies expected of a flagship? How well-made is the device? How it performs in terms of day-to-day usage? And most importantly, is it a smartphone that's truly worthy of commanding a price tag Rs 39,999 ?  We try to find the answers, in our comprehensive review of the Huawei P9.  Design and build quality Without a doubt, the Huawei P9 is one of the best-designed smartphones that we've ever laid our eyes on and the best Huawei has ever crafted. In fact, it's even better-looking than the Nexus 6P, and that's saying a lot.  Boasting a metallic unibody construction (made of aircraft-grade aluminium alloy, as per the company), the P9 looks absolutely gorgeous. The top edge of the back has a glossy-black 'bar' running across the entire width of the device, and houses the dual 12MP cameras, two-tone dual LED flash, as well as 'Leica Summarit' branding. Below that sits a square-shaped fingerprint sensor, which we'll talk about later. The Huawei branding is on the lower back. Lastly, there are two antenna lines running across the top and bottom of the rear panel.  Flip over the P9, and you'll see the majority of its front panel taken over by a 5.2-inch display. The top edge of the display is home to the earpiece, an 8MP selfie-shooter, a notification LED (curiously peeking from behind the earpiece grille) and the usual assortment of sensors. Thanks to on-screen navigation buttons, the bottom edge of the display has nothing, save for (another) Huawei branding.  Coming over to the sides, they are done in metal (obviously) as well. The left has the single-sim/microSD card slot tray, and the right is where you'll find the volume rocker and the power/sleep key, both of which provide fairly good feedback. The top edge is clean, except for the secondary microphone. As for the bottom, this is where the 3.5mm audio jack, the primary microphone, the USB Type-C port and the loudspeaker grille (in that order, from left to right) are. Oh, and the edges are chamfered, and thus look even better.  We'll say it again. Huawei P9 is one really good-looking device. It has a solid build that's every bit as premium as its looks. And thanks to the relatively compact (because of the smaller screen size) overall footprint, the P9 is a delight to use with one hand.  Display The Huawei P9 has a 5.2-inch Full HD IPS LCD display of 1080x1920 pixel resolution. It may not be comparable to the boundary-pushing 4K panels that flagships come with these days, but it's still extremely good. Having a pixel density of around 423ppi, the P9's panel makes everything from images to Full HD videos to graphics-heavy games look incredible. Viewing angles are great, and colour reproduction is pretty accurate. Contrast is spot-on as well.  Bottomline is, whether you stare at it for binge-watching movies or playing games, the P9's display certainly won't disappoint.  Performance Huawei P9 is driven by the company's home-brewed octa-core Kirin 955 chipset, with four Cortex-A72 cores clocked at 2.5GHz and four Cortex-A53 cores clocked at 1.8GHz. This is paired with 3GB of RAM and 32GB of on-board storage (of which around 25GB is available to the user).  While we were slightly disappointed on finding that the P9 uses a non-Qualcomm chipset (especially considering the fact that even its budget-conscious cousin Honor 5X rocks a Snapdragon 616), we can safely say that the Kirin 955 will be more than adequate for majority of the users' needs.  During our time with the smartphone, we've had no problems with using it as a daily driver. From multi-tabbed browsing to random app switching and from Full HD video playback to graphics-laden gaming titles like WWE Immortals, the P9 handles everything thrown at it with little to no effort. That said, it does heat up a bit when taking photos and playing games for extended stretches of time.  As you would expect, the Huawei P9 is a 4G-capable smartphone. And as far as discharging its primary duty (of being a phone) goes, the P9 delivers sans any issues. Over the course of our testing, we've had no concerns about the quality of calls handled on the P9. The smartphone latches on to the cellular network(s) pretty quickly and reception is generally good, even in places with spotty coverage such as underground parking lots and elevators.  The P9 has all the modern connectivity options that you can think of, including Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac, Bluetooth 4.2, GPS, GLONASS and USB Type-C. And the good thing is, all of these work as they should.  As for as the fingerprint sensor, it's one of the fastest we've used. Registering fingerprints is a quick affair and the sensor supports 360-degree recognition. Moreover, the fingerprint sensor on the Huawei P9 can be used for a whole lot more (e.g. answering calls, sliding down the notification shade), thanks to some neat gestures made possible by Emotion UI 4.1.  Speaking of Emotion UI, it's Huawei's custom UI layer running atop Android 6.0 Marshmallow. Emotion UI is much more than a skin, and adds some useful functionality to the OS. Other than the above mentioned fingerprint gestures, Emotion UI brings features like motion control gestures, one-hand UI, floating dock and customizable on-screen navigation buttons. It even includes a Harassment filter (for blocking unwanted calls and messages), a Battery manager and an App lock, which can be secured even further with registered fingerprints.  Now let's talk about the battery life. The P9 has a respectable 3,000mAh cell, which is non-removable. And on the basis of our usage (comprised of a couple of calls, a bit of gaming and a few hours of multimedia playback), we can say that the P9 will easily last you a day with average use. Among other factors, this can be attributed to the Full HD display, which sips lesser juice as compared to Quad HD and 4K panels. There's even a nifty 'ROG power saving' mode hidden away in the Battery manager sub-setting of the Phone Manager app, which reduces the resolution to HD (720x1280 pixel), further knocking down battery consumption.  Camera Imaging is arguably the most integral part of the Huawei P9's overall experience. The device's dual rear cameras have been developed in collaboration with Leica, a name that needs no introduction when it comes to first-rate cameras and lenses. And having used the Huawei P9 for a considerable amount of time, we are happy to say that it pretty much deserves the 'Leica Summarit' branding that adorns the black bar on its rear panel.  Of the two (each 12MP) cameras that are at the back of the P9, one shoots colour photos and the other does its thing in monochrome. The camera app offers three, self-explanatory coloured shooting modes - Standard, Vivid and Smooth. But that's just the tip of the iceberg, as the camera app on the Huawei P9 is insanely feature-laden.  Among the many shooting modes that the camera app offers are Photo, Monochrome, Beauty, HDR, Panorama, Night shot, Video and Beauty video. Almost all of these let you tweak relevant settings (e.g. assistive grid, resolution). Other than RAW support, there's even a full 'Pro' mode that allows full manual control, and gives you to granularly adjust ISO value, Exposure, Shutter speed and Focus.  Let us just say this outright. The images clicked with the P9 are some of the best we've seen from smartphone cameras. They pack a substantial amount of resolved detail, and the colour reproduction is almost spot-on. As for the monochrome shots, they are nothing short of incredible. Low-light images are pretty good as well. The P9 can also use its 'Wide aperture effects' to refocus the images and adjust the blur after they've been clicked, making for some really creative images.  As for the 8MP front-facing shooter, it's more than sufficient for selfies and video calling duties. And although the fact that the P9 can't shoot 4K videos is a bit disappointment, it can record Full HD videos at 60fps just fine.  Verdict Arguably Huawei's best effort in the smartphone market till date, the P9 has a lot going for it. The smartphone has fairly powerful innards, and a dual-camera setup that (in the right conditions) is capable of capturing some amazing shots, all encased in a chassis that's a sight to behold.  But all is not good with the Huawei P9. Lack of 4K recording functionality and a weak GPU are some of the sore points. At Rs 39,999, the price also seems a bit high, especially considering the fact that competing devices like the Xiaomi Mi 5 and OnePlus 3 offer more powerful specs at a much lower price.  All said, the Huawei P9 is still a really impressive smartphone. It's just not value-for-money. If you're a fan of stylish-looking smartphones and don't mind shelling out some extra money to have a phone that takes amazing images, the P9 is a no-brainer. On the other hand, if you would rather have a device that offers the most bang for your buck, better go for the OnePlus 3 or the Xiaomi Mi 5.

