URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/when-morgan-stanley-neglected-warnings-on-broker/articleshow/53784475.cms

Title : When Morgan Stanley neglected warnings on broker - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wall Street,Steve Wyatt,New York Times,Morgan Stanley,Mississippi,Delbert Hosemann

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 02.35 PM IST

Document ID : 445

Content:
  A troubling call came in to Morgan Stanley's internal hotline in May 2010.     One of the company's top financial advisers in Mississippi, Steve Wyatt, was struggling with medications and was "not sleeping, coming in 3 and 4 a.m.," his assistant said on the call, according to notes taken by the person who answered the phone. Wyatt, a broker, was also trading client money "erratically," the assistant said.     Morgan Stanley is one of the top banks on Wall Street, operating one of the most sophisticated financial advisory businesses in the world. But when the call came in, there was little effort to help fix the problems, Wyatt's colleagues — and Wyatt himself — testified in arbitration.     This was not the only time Morgan Stanley did not heed warnings about Wyatt, who managed tens of millions of dollars of customer money, according to a settlement this week and documents from arbitration cases against him and the company.     During Wyatt's five years at the company, supervisors and compliance officers noted his problematic behavior and business patterns many times and failed to step in, documents show. Lawyers for his former clients claim that they lost about half their money, or around $50 million.     Wyatt's case, while involving just one broker, sheds light on the difficulty that even sophisticated companies can encounter in supervising their far-flung networks of brokers, who manage the retirement savings of millions of people nationwide.    Wall Street companies have been expanding into wealth management and brokerage services, as profits from other businesses have been under pressure from regulations imposed after the 2008 financial crisis. Morgan Stanley now has nearly 16,000 financial advisers, one of the largest such forces of any company.     Wyatt, who oversaw more than $100 million in client money, was fired in 2012, more than two years after that phone call and after more concerns were raised.     In an interview, Wyatt, now 44, described falling into depression and having suicidal feelings, set off by the chaos of financial crisis and its aftermath. He said his supervisors never offered help or expressed concern. "If they thought I was suicidal, if they thought I was depressed, nobody mentioned anything to me — concerned or otherwise," he said.     This week, the Mississippi secretary of state said in a settlement with Morgan Stanley that it had "failed to reasonably supervise" Wyatt. "Clearly, they had warning signs — they had indications of personal issues," Delbert Hosemann, the Mississippi secretary of state, said of Morgan Stanley. "All of those were either dealt with in a cursory manner or not dealt with at all."     The settlement barred Wyatt and his immediate supervisor from the securities industry for life. Morgan Stanley was also instructed to create a $4.2 million fund to reimburse clients, a small part of what customers claim they lost with Wyatt.    Morgan Stanley did not admit or deny the accusations in the state settlement.     The company is fighting dozens of Wyatt's former clients in arbitration. It has said in legal documents that the clients were "negligent" for not following Wyatt more closely. In the three arbitration cases that have been decided so far, Morgan Stanley has had to pay about $3 million.     James Wiggins, a spokesman for the company, said this week that many of Wyatt's losses had resulted largely from the turmoil caused by the financial crisis.     "We take extremely seriously our responsibility for placing our clients' interest first," Wiggins said.     The state settlement provides few details about the behavior that got Wyatt and Morgan Stanley into trouble. But closed testimony and thousands of pages of documents from the arbitration cases reviewed by The New York Times shed light on how the matter played out at the company.     Morgan Stanley neglected warnings on broker     A troubling call came in to Morgan Stanley's internal hotline in May 2010.     One of the company's top financial advisers in Mississippi, Steve Wyatt, was struggling with medications and was "not sleeping, coming in 3 and 4 a.m.," his assistant said on the call, according to notes taken by the person who answered the phone. Wyatt, a broker, was also trading client money "erratically," the assistant said.     Morgan Stanley is one of the top banks on Wall Street, operating one of the most sophisticated financial advisory businesses in the world. But when the call came in, there was little effort to help fix the problems, Wyatt's colleagues — and Wyatt himself — testified in arbitration.     This was not the only time Morgan Stanley did not heed warnings about Wyatt, who managed tens of millions of dollars of customer money, according to a settlement this week and documents from arbitration cases against him and the company.     During Wyatt's five years at the company, supervisors and compliance officers noted his problematic behavior and business patterns many times and failed to step in, documents show. Lawyers for his former clients claim that they lost about half their money, or around $50 million.     Wyatt's case, while involving just one broker, sheds light on the difficulty that even sophisticated companies can encounter in supervising their far-flung networks of brokers, who manage the retirement savings of millions of people nationwide.    Wall Street companies have been expanding into wealth management and brokerage services, as profits from other businesses have been under pressure from regulations imposed after the 2008 financial crisis. Morgan Stanley now has nearly 16,000 financial advisers, one of the largest such forces of any company.     Wyatt, who oversaw more than $100 million in client money, was fired in 2012, more than two years after that phone call and after more concerns were raised.     In an interview, Wyatt, now 44, described falling into depression and having suicidal feelings, set off by the chaos of financial crisis and its aftermath. He said his supervisors never offered help or expressed concern. "If they thought I was suicidal, if they thought I was depressed, nobody mentioned anything to me — concerned or otherwise," he said.     This week, the Mississippi secretary of state said in a settlement with Morgan Stanley that it had "failed to reasonably supervise" Wyatt. "Clearly, they had warning signs — they had indications of personal issues," Delbert Hosemann, the Mississippi secretary of state, said of Morgan Stanley. "All of those were either dealt with in a cursory manner or not dealt with at all."     The settlement barred Wyatt and his immediate supervisor from the securities industry for life. Morgan Stanley was also instructed to create a $4.2 million fund to reimburse clients, a small part of what customers claim they lost with Wyatt.    Morgan Stanley did not admit or deny the accusations in the state settlement.     The company is fighting dozens of Wyatt's former clients in arbitration. It has said in legal documents that the clients were "negligent" for not following Wyatt more closely. In the three arbitration cases that have been decided so far, Morgan Stanley has had to pay about $3 million.     James Wiggins, a spokesman for the company, said this week that many of Wyatt's losses had resulted largely from the turmoil caused by the financial crisis.     "We take extremely seriously our responsibility for placing our clients' interest first," Wiggins said.     The state settlement provides few details about the behavior that got Wyatt and Morgan Stanley into trouble. But closed testimony and thousands of pages of documents from the arbitration cases reviewed by The New York Times shed light on how the matter played out at the company.  

