URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/we-are-attracting-positive-flows-only-an-external-trigger-can-reverse-it-pashupati-advani/articleshow/53735773.cms

Title : We are attracting positive flows, only an external trigger can reverse it: Pashupati Advani - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,UK,TCS,Tata Motors,Subsidy,stocks,So,REITs,portfolio,place,people,Pashupati Advani,Pakistan,new,n,MF,mean,markets,Market,Mahindra & Mahindra,Mahindra,Jobs,Jamna,Jaiprakash Associates,Infosys,India,in,GHCL,ftse,europe,et now,ET,Edelweiss Financial,Delta Corp,China,Business,Brexit,autos,Auto

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 11.50 AM IST

Document ID : 633

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, Pashupati Advani@globalforay, says in an emerging markets funds, the India portfolio is overweight. Edited excerpts   ET Now: Do you reckon at some point of time there should be a mean reversion in markets or will we continue to edge up higher?  Pashupati Advani: We are kind of a nice fruit at the moment. Money continues to come in. We are getting positive flows and that is always heartening and we are seeing turmoil in other places like Brexit and Europe, but the big challenge is that the US seems to be doing well. So that is still attracting money and we are attracting money because of all the efforts of our government there and saying we are part of the world and China also does not seem to be attracting money, which is also a big step for us. So as long as that money is coming, we are okay. The minute the money starts taking a reverse direction, then we are going to have some issues.  ET Now: Do you foresee that happening any time soon? What could trigger it?  Pashupati Advani: Well the trigger is nothing from our side. The trigger is going to be an external trigger. Every industry seems to be gradually bottoming out and you are seeing some activity at the bottom. But the cycles take time and may take one or two years for them to actually get going. But in interim, we are in a good position.  ET Now: And that is here to stay for some time. That has been the story for the last couple of years. For the longest time I remember, India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world and we will get lion's share of inflows. So it is like saying old wine in a new bottle.  Pashupati Advani: We have gone up as a result of being in the limelight for...  ET Now: But it is not just India. It is all emerging markets which have gone up. Look at Brazil, Russia. Even markets like China, Pakistan, I have been told is doing better than India. So it is not an emerging market rally. Despite all Brexit concerns, FTSE is also at a high.  Pashupati Advani: There is an emerging market's rally but one of the big changes is in the last year or so, we are seeing India specific funds coming again. The reality is that if it is an emerging markets fund, the India portfolio is overweight. They are actually having to sell which is not kind of a good place to be if you are an EM manager. But because Brazil and because Russia have come out from like really deep downs, people are sort of having to invest then just to balance their portfolios.  ET Now: So what has stood out? This earning season has been ho-hum. You could actually say that it is a mixed bag, 50-50, 60-40, whatever. But there are pockets of individual outperformance. Managements have spoken about capex. Managements have given good guidance particularly the auto component or the speciality chemical spaces, few pockets in between. What has stood out for you?  Pashupati Advani: Well exactly those sectors. We are seeing some demand at the bottom and therefore you are seeing these niche sectors which are organised and which are I would say nimble. It is very difficult for the larger businesses to actually turn. They may be continuously doing capex but their version of capex is just like continuous capex and it is still large enough, larger than the smaller companies.  But the smaller companies can actually make a comment that we are doing capex. We are going to increase capacity and I think that is a heartening trend because capex will take two-three years to come to kick in but the fact is that may be the banks are realising and lending to these people at sensible rates because there is still that issue that the high-quality borrowers are getting very cheap money and the next level there is a big gap and I think that gap has to be narrowed.  ET Now: So what stood out for you?  Pashupati Advani: The same. I mean the microfinance companies have come in. They have been very buzzing but it is very easy in that sense to...  ET Now: Will you buy the stocks?  Pashupati Advani: Microfinance?  ET Now: Yes.  Pashupati Advani: ...been in in and out. I think...  ET Now: Right now?  Pashupati Advani: No, I do not think right now.  ET Now: Why?  Pashupati Advani: Because I think that as a slightly longer term trend, I think there is going to be disruption in the Industry with the sort of Paytms, Freecharges of the world coming in.  ET Now: I mean microfinance companies are going to be lending to people who need a Rs 1000 and a Rs 1500 loan. I do not think they will use the Paytm.  

