URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/dont-paint-all-large-cap-funds-with-same-brush/articleshow/50831425.cms

Title : Don't paint all large-cap funds with same brush - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sensex,nifty,mutual funds,mid-cap fund,Large-cap fund,benchmark index

Date :  Feb 03, 2016, 11.26 AM IST

Document ID : 855

Content:
  Over the past few weeks, the Street seems to have shifted its attention to large-cap stocks. If you have been riding the mid-cap wave for the past year and find yourself light on this segment, this would be the right time to introduce a large-cap fund to the mix. Irrespective of the market mood, it makes sense to have some allocation towards large-cap funds to lend some stability to the portfolio. Although choosing one may seem easier compared to a mid-cap oriented or multi-cap fund, experts advise investors to be discerning in their choice of large-cap fund. Here is why you need to put some thought into picking a large-cap fund.    Not sailing in the same boat  A large cap fund's portfolio is typically drawn from a very narrow universe of stocks, unlike other categories which draw from a much wider base.For instance, some large-cap funds cherry pick stocks from the 50-share Nifty index or 30-share Sensex index, others from the BSE100 or Nifty100. A mid-cap fund, on the other hand, draws from a wider universe such as Nifty Midcap or BSE200. Playing within this narrow window provides much lesser scope for funds in this category to have starkly varying portfolios. So, on the face of it, while the large-cap category may seem like a bunch of identical offerings compared to the multi-flavoured mid-cap funds basket, this is not at all the case. Look deeper and you will find huge differences in the investing style, risk controls and flexibility in investment mandate. Vidya Bala, Head Mutual Fund Research, FundsIndia, says, "It may seem like all large-cap funds are sailing in the same boat, but there are differences in the approach of these funds."     Due to the inherent nature of its underlying stocks, a large cap fund has limited ability to outperform the benchmark index, compared to a midcap fund. However, fund managers try to generate alpha through various means. First, some large-cap funds enjoy higher flexibility in investments than others. Some seek to generate higher outperformance over the benchmark and peers by taking higher exposure to midcap stocks as compared to others. "Some funds enjoy more leeway to invest in some nascent large-caps, which can make a big difference to the fund's return profile," points out Bala. Kaustubh Belapurkar, Director - Fund Research, concurs, "There are very few pure-play largecap offerings in this space. Many of these funds invest upto 15-20% in midcaps as an avenue for generating higher alpha over the long run." The funds which prefer to stick to the large-cap mandate are the ones which contain downside well. Franklin India Bluechip Fund, for instance, is known to run a strict large-cap mandate. Others may exhibit higher volatility in returns, which may not suit the investor's risk profile.     Apart from this, some funds seek to generate alpha by taking larger active positions in certain stocks. An active position implies the extent to which the portfolio allocation to a single stock or sector varies from its weight in the scheme benchmark index. So, if XYZ stock carries a 5% weight in the benchmark index, but the fund has invested 8% of the portfolio in the stock, it has an active weight of 3% on the stock. Typically , large-cap funds take smaller active positions com pared to other fund categories, but this varies from fund to fund. By taking higher active position in select stocks, a fund manager can enhance the contribution of these stocks to the fund's overall returns and make the most of any rally in the stock price.Belapurkar points out, "Fund performance is not only determined by stock selection but how the individual stocks are weighed within the portfo io. It is this reason why some largecap funds managed to deliver positive returns over the past year even as others struggled." A higher degree of concentration in holdings may work wonders if pulled off well but can also drag down returns if the calls go wrong. For instance, concentrated exposure to stocks like SBI and ICICI Bank has seen HDFC Top 200 fall down he performance charts for the past ew years.    Be finicky  It is clear that even within the largecap space, there are differences in fund traits that lend varying degrees of aggression to each portfolio. As such, one may not be comfortable with just any large-cap offering, even if its performance is top-notch. As a rule, a large-cap fund should carry lesser risk, argue experts. Bala insists, "The very purpose of large-cap funds is to contain volatility and lend some stability to the portfolio. The fund you pick should be in a position to do so." If you come across a large-cap scheme providing flashy return, stay away. Belapurkar advocates looking at the upcapture and downcapture ratio (available on the Morningstar website) while choosing the fund. " A quality large-cap fund will typically offer around 90-100% of the market upside but capture much lesser of a market downside, thus delivering alpha over a market cycle," he says. It would be wise to exercise caution if the fund is offering anything beyond this.    

