URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//book-profits-as-markets-rally-advice-analysts/articleshow/11856100.cms

Title : Book profits as markets rally, advice analysts - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : reserve bank of india,FII,Euro zone,Debt schemes

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 11.19 AM IST

Document ID : 434

Content:
      The stock markets have gone up by almost 15 percent since the beginning of this year, and are currently consolidating around their key resistance levels. Analysts say a breakout from the current range is expected in the next few weeks, and the market movements will largely depend on developments in the global markets.             Since the markets have gone up quite a bit, investors are advised to review their portfolios and make the necessary changes. It is time to plan some profit booking or cut loss, shift equity positions and rebalancing between equity and debt instruments.             Some significant factors to track in the coming days:        Euro region        Investors should track the developments in the Western developed economies, especially the Euro region closely. The major drivers of the current rally have been the positive macroeconomic numbers from the US that gave confidence to global investors.             However, there are areas of uncertainty in Europe even as efforts are on to control the fiscal deficits of the weaker European nations and limit the spread of the sovereign debt contagion in the region.        FII investments        The foreign institutional investor (FII) confidence and activity in the markets are significant for investors. FIIs are large investors and bring momentum to the markets. Huge FII inflow last month is the prime reason for the upward market movement as well as rupee appreciation.             Therefore, investors should track FII activity in the markets closely.        Domestic economy        The positive developments in the macroeconomic numbers - inflation showing signs of cooling down, monetary easing by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the rupee appreciation - has been another major factor that triggered the current rally.             Investors should track these numbers closely as they have the potential to influence the sentiments of large investors in the markets.        Union Budget        The Union Budget announcement for the next fiscal is drawing near. The Budget announcement is scheduled for next month. The plans to control the fiscal deficit and reduce the subsidy burden, and changes in tax structure, especially related to taxation of securities, are some of the major issues for investors to track.        Defensive approach        Since the markets have gone up quite a bit over the last couple of months, analysts suggest investors should take a defensive approach, and book some profits. Investors with a low risk appetite can reduce their exposure to equity and rebalance the portfolio investing in debt-based instruments.        Identify profit-booking opportunities        The first step is to review the portfolio and analyse the performances of various stocks. There are many high beta stocks that appreciated by over 50 percent during the current rally. Investors can book some profits in these stocks and stay with cash or invest in debt instruments, and reinvest the funds in equity at lower levels.             Investors can also exit under-performing stocks. Since the markets have run up quite significantly, there is a fair chance of a correction. Investors should exit from under-performing stocks in their portfolios.             Investors can also exit from stocks that under-performed in the quarterly results. These stocks would be the worst-hit ones during a market correction phase and may not yield good returns later when the market moves up.        How to book profits        Investors can book profits gradually in stocks that are performing well. It's good to set a target of how much profit one wants to book, say 30 percent, and accordingly make an exit in a single step or gradually at regular intervals.             Investors should exit under-performing stocks in a single step as the potential of further appreciation may be low in case the markets rally further. On the other hand, under-performing stocks can go through a sharp price fall in case the markets correct.             Since the markets have gone up quite significantly, there are chances of a correction in the near future. Realisations can be invested in debt-based instruments and later reinvested in equity during a correction phase.    

