URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/A-creative-oasis-at-the-Museum-of-Goa/articleshow/53789341.cms

Title : A creative oasis at the Museum of Goa - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : terracotta kiln,Sunday ET,Saptakoteshwar temple,Natals,Museum of Goa,Bamonns

Date : Aug 21, 2016, 10.37 AM IST

Document ID : 968

Content:
  A designated industrial area is one of the last places you expect to be the home of a modern art gallery. As you pass pharmaceutical laboratories, steel-fabrication and marble-making units, following directions to the Museum of Goa (MOG), your expectations of the place become fainter. But as you reach the end of a lane and turn left, your hopes are restored.     A simple yet elegant three-storey white structure with over 16,000 sq ft of space for photographs, paintings and installations, besides other art forms like music, cinema, dance and also dialogues with artists and historians, MOG is right next to the woods, making it seem like a concrete outgrowth of the forest.        MOG is located in the Pilerne Industrial Estate, just over 10 km north of Goa's capital Panaji because its 56-yearold founder and artist Subodh Kerkar bought this land 25 years ago when the area was being developed by the government to attract industry.     Later, when he was sent a notice by the government for keeping the land unutilised, he set up a terracotta kiln for his own needs. He started making sculptures there and then built MOG with Rs 3.5 crore he got from selling a piece of land. MOG was opened to the public in November last year and has since stoked curiosity among both locals and tourists, given that such spaces are not so common in Goa.     To Kerkar, MOG is more than a gallery. "It is a hybrid between a gallery and an institution. Our mission is to take art to the masses and create a platform for good artists. We want to demystify contemporary art for people," he says.     Kerkar, who grew up not far from the gallery, adds that history, particularly of Goa, has been a footnote to his works over the past decade. So it is not surprising that the current exhibition at MOG, "Histories of Goa", which started in June, is part of his attempt to narrate history through contemporary art.    Thread of history   A casual visitor looking at the artwork, without paying much attention to the notes next to them, will miss out on the most interesting part of the exhibition: the stories that inspired these works.        One such story led 28-year-old Goan artist Kalidas Mhamal to create the sculpture The Caste Thread. Mhamal was working on a project on Goa's history when he came across a story from the 16th century, during the Portuguese reign of Goa, which got him hooked.     In a single session circa 1560, around 1,500 Brahmins were baptised on Divar island, on the Mandovi river near Panaji, said to be among the first mass conversions since the arrival of the Portuguese in Goa in 1510.      Divar island was then home to the Saptakoteshwar temple, one of the holiest in the region. "We know the aim of your visit but you are not aware of our decision. You want us to embrace Christianity. We are ready to receive it," the Brahmins are said to have told one Brother Domingos Fernandes, according to Village Goa: A Study of Goan Social Structure and Change by noted Konkani scholar Olivinho Gomes.     After converting to Christianity, the Brahmins realised that there was no caste system, which meant they were equal to the lower castes. They then asked the bishop if they could continue wearing their sacred thread, following which a letter was sent to the Vatican. In 1623, Pope Gregory XV issued a decree, saying they could wear the thread, provided it was blessed by a priest.     Goan Catholics who were once Brahmins are referred to as "Bamonns" and those who were Kshatriyas and Vaishyas are called "Chardos". Inspired by this piece of history, Mhamal decided to create five fibreglass busts used for mannequins. "I chose the mannequin concept because in shops they are made to wear different clothes during different religious festivals."     The headless busts sport both the sacred thread and the cross, and pictures of meat, fire, wine and bread, which were used during conversion. Each of them also has a Hindu name and a Catholic name.     Several Goan Catholics still acknowledge their Hindu past. For instance, the family of famous cartoonist Mario Miranda, who were Sardesais before conversion, continued to honour a promise made by their ancestors at the Shantadurga temple in Fatorpa in the state long after conversion, which is continued by the current owners of the family's ancestral land.     The commitment was to bring the first bag of rice after every harvest and a hundred coconuts or the oil from a hundred coconuts from the land to the temple. Hindus account for three-fourths of the state's population and Christians, a fourth, according to the 2011 Census.    Photo Synthesis|   Another interesting work on display is a collection of photographs of Goans from the first half of the 20th century, called "Moments, Memories, Memorabilia". Savia Viegas, who collected the photographs, says she got interested in the project after observing old photographs at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC, when she was there on a Fulbright fellowship.     One photograph, from the 1920s, is of an aristocratic, money lending family seated on chairs, with a young girl on the floor. Viegas says the girl, a local slave, had recently been tonsured and branded after she was caught stealing the family's jewellery. The girl, who has an unmissable scowl in the picture, later went on to live in Mumbai.     Viegas says the pictures capture the beliefs and trends of the time. There are several photographs of families dressed in western attire in the collection. "These pictures were meant for a native audience. They enhanced the families' symbolic power in their social context. Visitors to the house would look at the photographs and say, 'You look just like the Portuguese'," says Viegas.      Chicken run   One photograph in the collection, which is not part of the exhibit, is of a couple in what is presumably their wedding photo. But since the couple could not afford a photograph at the time of the wedding, they waited a few months to take the photograph by which time the wife was pregnant.       Viegas says since the wife, who told her the story, had outgrown the wedding dress, the back of the dress had to be left open when the photograph was taken. Several works in the "Histories of Goa" exhibition are Kerkar's own. One of them is a sculpture titled Chicken Cafreal, an ode to the origin of the popular Goan dish, which is also inspired by the Rooster of Barcelos, a national symbol of Portugal.     The slaves that the Portuguese brought to Goa from Mozambique used to make a chicken dish with chillies and spices, which the Portuguese took a liking to. They named it chicken cafreal, after "cafre", derived from "kaffir", a term used by Arab traders for non-Muslims.     Another sculpture connected with slavery is Cowry Fork. The agents paid cowry shells, the then currency in the African region, to purchase slaves in Mozambique for the Portuguese. The slaves were tied to forked branches of a tree so that they would not escape.     Kerkar's other works are also inspired by the Portuguese reign in Goa, which lasted till 1961, including the foods the Portuguese brought to India like chilli, pineapple and cashew. Equally interesting is Kerkar's exhibit 150 Natals.     Most Catholic families in Goa paint their homes before Christmas, called "Natal" in Portuguese. The pieces of the wall used in this work are from a 150-yearold house, which was painted white for its first three decades and has since been painted with lime mixed with indigo, red oxide and yellow ochre over the years.     These multiple layers are visible in the exhibit. Kerkar, a trained medical doctor who turned his back on the profession after seven years, says there will be additions and substitutions to the exhibition over the next few months, besides talks on weekends by painters, writers, poets and historians.      Arthshila, a Patna-based multiarts centre, has agreed to financially support these talks for a year. Arthshila's Sanjiv Kumar says sustainability is a huge issue for galleries like MOG: "People are willing to pay Rs 10 crore for a painting, but they don't support such initiatives."     Kumar says Arthshila also has plans to commission some works, which can be part of a travelling exhibition. Painting and sculpture cannot compete with other art forms like cinema and music for wide acceptance by a general audience, but exhibitions like this, which go beyond just creating works of art and interpret little-known yet compelling stories from the past, could do much to take them a little closer to people.  

