URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/inflation-crosses-red-line-heres-how-your-investments-can-beat-it/articleshow/53682355.cms

Title : Inflation crosses red line: Here's how your investments can beat it - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stocks,savings,Price rise,Monthly income plans,Inflation,equity funds,CPI,consumer inflation

Date : Aug 16, 2016, 01.32 PM IST

Document ID : 353

Content:
  Months after the RBI defanged and tamed inflation, the monster is beginning to stir again. Consumer inflation rose to 6.07% in July due to higher food prices and analysts expect no respite in the coming months. Most readers may not get perturbed if prices rise by about 6% in a year. But this is only the headline inflation and misleading because it represents all consumers, including the vast lower middle class. "Middle- and upper-middle class consumers experience a significantly higher inflation than what the index indicates," says Debopam Chaudhuri, Chief Economist, ZyFin Research.     The index itself does not truly reflect the expenditure of the average middle- and upper-middle class urban family. For example, education has less than 6% weightage in the index even though almost 10-12% of the expenses of urban Indian families go towards this vital head. "Middle-class households spend certainly more than 6% on education. The CPI does not capture the expenses incurred on tuition and coaching," says Vivek Kulkarni, Managing Director of rating agency Brickwork Ratings. Also, the index puts the rise in education inflation in the past one year at 4.31% whereas the fees in public schools and other ancillary expenses are going up by nearly 8-10% every year. Higher education costs are rising at an even faster clip of 10-12%.    Don't go by the inflation index   The CPI does not truly reflect the expenses of the average urban family          These numbers are critical for investors. If parents investing for their child's education assume a lower inflation of 6-8%, they could end up saving a much lower amount than required. "The CPI inflation is not relevant for financial planning as the basket and proportion of items are vastly different from the actual consumption by families," says Chenthil Iyer, Founder and Chief Strategist of financial advisory firm Horus Financial Consultants. Here's a perspective of how wrong can one go by following the index. If an engineering course costs Rs 8 lakh in 2016 and the investor assumes the fees to rise by 7% every year, he will target a corpus of Rs 22 lakh in 15 years. But if the fees rises 10% every year, he will require Rs 33 lakh--50% more than what he has saved.     It is therefore essential that investors assume a higher inflation rate when they start saving for long-term goals. "Most people assume 0% inflation. They simply don't factor in any rise in price when they plan for their goals," says Taresh Bhatia, Partner in Advantage Financial Planners. Bhatia prefers to err on the side of caution so that his clients are safe rather than sorry. "We assume education inflation at 10% and healthcare inflation at 12-15% when we formulate a financial plan," he says.     The risk of going wrong is greater for those saving for retirement. It might be too late to make amends by the time they discover the miscalculation and the resultant shortfall. "Calculating the required investment for your goals is not a one-time exercise. It has to be reviewed year after year and recalibrated in case there is a shortfall," says Bhatia. Lifestyle inflation kicks in To some extent, individuals are also responsible for the inflation they face. Lifestyle inflation kicks in when the individual's consumption pattern changes following an increase in income. Take for instance, the expenses on communications. The technological advances in telecom and the spread of the Internet have brought down the cost of communication so the inflation is barely 0.18%. But the consumption pattern has changed. Ten years ago, only the head of the family had a cell phone. Now, even school going kids have smart phone with a Net connection. Though you are paying less for calls, you are spending more on the service.    How inflation affects your wealth      This applies to other products and services as well. For instance, the concept of eating out has also changed dramatically in the past 10 years. Families are not only eating out more often, but have upgraded to swankier restaurants over the years. The index numbers are based on the increase in food prices at the restaurants they used to visit earlier. It doesn't take into account the fatter bills that families run up at the new eateries they now visit.    How you can beat inflation   You can do precious little to stop prices of products and services from rising. But you can insulate yourself against this rise by either cutting down on your consumption or saving enough to be able to afford these products and services in future. Investors saving for long-term goals such as their children's education and marriage and their own retirement should remember that a 100% debt based portfolio will never be able to beat inflation. In the past 10 years, the CPI for urban consumers has risen by an average 8.07%. This means investments that offer less than 8% returns have not been very lucrative. Eroded by inflation, the purchasing power of the maturity corpus is less than that of the principal at the time of investment (see graphic).       Investments that are ahead of inflation  1. Equity funds     (12-15% Returns)        Only equities have been able to beat inflation in the long term.     2. Balanced funds    (10-12% Returns)        Balanced funds beat inflation but carry more risk than MIP funds.     3. ULIPS    (8-12% Returns)        Depends on asset mix chosen by investor. High charges can erode the gains.     4. MIP funds    (8.5-9.5% Returns)        These funds invest 10-20% of their corpus in equities to run ahead of inflation.     5. PPF    (8.1% Returns)        Corpus is tax-free but returns barely match the rise in consumer inflation.     Average urban CPI up 8.07% in past 10 years  Investments that lag inflation  6. Gold    (6-7% Returns)        Traditional hedge against inflation, but lost that position in past 3-4 years.     7. Insurance policies    (6-7% Returns)        Appear attractive when you look at future value but won't beat inflation.     8. Bank deposits    (5.25-7.5 Returns)        Income is fully taxable so won't beat inflation for those in 30% tax bracket.     9. Balance in savings account    (4% Returns)        Don't let money idle in your bank account. Its purchasing power gets eroded very fast.     10. Cash lying in locker    (0% Returns)        Worst way to deploy money because its value erodes with every passing day.      The only way to beat the incessant march of inflation is to invest in instruments that offer higher returns. stocks and equity-oriented funds have a good long-term record of beating inflation. In the past 10 years, equity funds have delivered 12-15% returns, while equity-oriented balanced funds have given 10-12%. These investments are also very tax friendly, with no tax on long-term gains if the holding period exceeds one year. "The tax advantage that stocks and equity funds offer is phenomenal. There is no other asset class that can give you similar tax advantage," says Harsha Upadhyaya, CIO, Kotak Mutual Fund.     Keep in mind though that this is past performance—there is no assurance that it will be repeated in future as well. If your risk appetite is lower, monthly income plans (MIPs) from mutual funds can be a good alternative. These funds put only 15-20% of their corpus in equities and are therefore less volatile than equity or balanced funds. However, the returns are also lower than those of equity funds. In the past 10 years, MIPs have given around 9%. Investors should also note that the returns from equity and balanced funds are tax free after a year, while the gains from MIPs are taxed at 20% after indexation benefit.     On the other hand, the maturity corpus of life insurance plans is tax-free but the returns are so low that they can't beat inflation. Traditional life insurance plans offer barely 5-6% returns, but investors tend to fall for the enormous maturity corpus projected by the agent. A maturity corpus of Rs 30 lakh might seem like a big amount today, but 8% inflation will reduce its purchasing power to barely Rs 4.5 lakh in 25 years.   

