URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mutual-funds-dumped-icici-bank-axis-bank-in-april-bought-cil-ipca-labs/articleshow/52339798.cms

Title : Mutual funds dumped ICICI Bank, Axis Bank in April, bought CIL, IPCA Labs - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zydus Wellness,Zee Entertainment,United Spirits,Tech Mahindra,tech,TCS,Sensex,Reliance Industries,NHPC,New Delhi,mutual funds,MOIL,Maruti Suzuki,Market,Mahindra,M&M,L&T,Kotak Mahindra Bank,ITC,Infosys,IndusInd Bank,India,ICICI bank,Edelweiss,Coal India,Cipla,Bajaj Finance,Bajaj,Axis Bank

Date :  May 19, 2016, 11.37 AM IST

Document ID : 940

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Recasting of portfolios by domestic fund managers was at its peak in April, the month that saw BSE benchmark Sensex trade in a wide range of 1,600 points.     Top mutual fund houses were seen dumping private lenders such as Axis Bank and ICICI Bank, while bargain hunting was seen on the counters of Coal India, Cipla and IPCA Labs, among others.       (Image source: Edelweiss Securities report)     "Led by positive global cues and hopes of a normal monsoon this time around, equities continued the good run in April. The consumption theme played out as mutual funds bought HDFC, Zee Entertainment and United Spirits. On the other hand, it was time for some profit taking in the IT space (funds sold Infosys, TCS, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech)," Edelweiss Securities said in its April Edelweiss Fund Insight report.     Top mutual fund house HDFC MF, which has an equity AUM of about Rs 50,500 crore, added the stocks of IndusInd Bank, Maruti Suzuki India and NHPC, while reducing stakes in firms like Infosys, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Bajaj Finance.       (Image source: Edelweiss Securities report)     The fund house completely exited Wabco India and MOIL, but was seen accumulating Ashoka Buildcon in its portfolios.     ICICI Prudential MF, the second largest MF by equity exposure, increased its stake in Coal India, HDFC and Maruti Suzuki India, while offloading shares of Lupin, Infosys and M&M; Financial Services.     The mutual fund house remained bullish on recent listings such as Equitas and Ujjivan. The fund house saw a complete exit from Zydus Wellness during the month.     Reliance Mutual Fund turned bullish on microfinance companies Equitas and Ujjivan. The fund house reduced in exposure to Reliance Industries, Axis Bank and Infosys, but added ITC, L&T; and Cipla to its porfolios. It exited MEP Infra completely.     This fund house manages about Rs 46,200 crore of equity assets. Among the top six fund houses by equity AUM, Equitas Holdings made its entry into the portfolios of top five fund houses in terms of asset under management.Rs 46,200 crore of equity assets.      (Image source: Edelweiss Securities report)     A recent 10-year study of the trend between monthly MF flows and the market movement showed DIIs such as mutual fund houses were right in 47 per cent cases, while FIIs made the right stock calls in 52 per cent of cases.  

