URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//budget-2012-election-results-driving-the-volatility-in-markets/articleshow/12129970.cms

Title : Budget 2012 & election results driving the volatility in markets - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : volatility,reserve bank of india,LTRO,fiscal deficit,election,budget 2012,budget,Brent

Date :  Mar 04, 2012, 03.11 PM IST

Document ID : 420

Content:
      The stock markets resembled a minefield as volatility returned viciously last week. The term seems apt for the stock markets today. The dictionary says if something resembles a 'minefield' , it implies 'having many dangers or requiring extreme caution'.             Since the beginning of this year, the stock markets have soared due to the longterm refinance operation (LTRO) funds' infusion and volatility had waned. After a sharp rally of nearly 1,000 points on the Nifty, the volatility that was missing for two and half months was back once again.             The stock markets were falling three percent one day and rising two percent the next day, causing even the best of analysts to go wrong on their outlook for the markets.        Also Check: Budget 2012 at ET | Union Budget | Rail Budget 2012 | Budget News        This volatility may continue in the stock markets for some time due to the contradictory news flows that is confusing investors and analysts alike. On the one hand there is liquidity from the LTRO tranches that is pushing the markets higher.             On the other, fundamental data indicates the rally in the markets is unsustainable. This contradiction is making it difficult for market analysts, investors and traders to take any decision on the direction of the markets , leading to sharp reactions to each rise and fall.        Budget causing volatility:      The stock markets are nervous on the forthcoming Budget. Today, the focus on the fiscal deficit is strong. The Budget becomes critical for the markets. The fiscal health has deteriorated in the financial year 2012 and cannot be repaired overnight. The markets will be keenly watching for a reduction in the fiscal deficit.             Deficit control will require an increase in revenues, control over expenditure and an impetus for rapid growth in the GDP. More savings will result in more investments, in turn accelerating the GDP growth. A large portion of savings is invested in gold which is a dead investment as it does not provide for growth.             Conversion of gold into financial savings is of utmost importance as it has many positive effects on the current account deficit, and currency, savings, investment and GDP growth. Can the budget provide for all of these?             The markets are jittery and vacillating between hope and scepticism on the finance minister's ability to create magic that will reduce the deficit and provide for growth in the same Budget. In a sense, it is a make or break Budget for the markets.        Rising crude oil price:      The rising crude oil price posed a threat to the ongoing rally causing some amount of volatility. The price of crude oil has gone up by 15-20 percent since the beginning of the calendar. Brent crude has risen by over 15 percent in the last couple of months and by 45 percent over the last one year.             Fundamentally, oil should be trading in a band between USD 80-100, given the weakness in the global economy. But oil prices overshot their fundamental valuations ever since Iran got aggressive on its nuclear policy. This has had an impact on India.             In the first nine months of the current financial year (April-December), India's oil import bill has risen by nearly 40 percent to USD 106 billion , and accounts for nearly 80 percent of the trade deficit.                Analysts feel a steep rise in the price of crude oil can increase the inflationary pressures. Rising oil prices is a major worry, as it can deter the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from cutting interest rates soon. The markets want a rate cut by the RBI in March to accelerate the GDP growth.        Election results:      The other major factor that could lead to higher volatility is election results. The markets need second generation reforms in this Budget to kick-start growth. The only way it can happen is with a strong central government.             The markets are hoping the State elections will deliver this. If the poll results are in line with expectations, inflows from foreign institutional investors (FIIs) will increase, strengthening the current bull market. Or else, the markets are in for more bouts of volatility.        Investment strategy:      Till all of these events are out of the way, the stock markets will be volatile. Investors have to be careful in the minefield of the stock markets. Individual and conservative investors may be better off staying away till some clarity emerges. One should have sufficient stop-loss triggers for their stock investments.             Investors with the ability to take risks may find value in capital goods stocks, and stocks in auto and banking sectors. When investing at the current juncture, one should be aware that volatility can cause some notional losses. Investors can continue holding their value investments for a longer duration to earn good returns.    

