URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/where-is-the-money-honey-why-ncds-make-a-compelling-case/articleshow/53781214.cms

Title : Where is the money, honey? Why NCDs make a compelling case - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stock market,NCD,Market,liquidity,in,fixed deposits,Dewan Housing Finance Corporation,Credit Rating,bonds

Date : Aug 20, 2016, 09.38 AM IST

Document ID : 468

Content:
 By DK Aggarwal    With abundant liquidity chasing Indian equities, the stock market has seen a lot of activity not only by domestic investors but also their overseas peers. Non-convertible debentures (NCD) are attracting lot of investor interest these days.     When interest rates are on a declining trend and the future trajectory looks the same, NCDs have turned quite appealing to investors because they offer higher interest rates than both bank fixed deposits and government bonds.     Compared with (FY) 2008-09, the number of companies offering NCDs and the total base issue size have grown nearly 20 times in last three to four years.     In this financial year till date, six companies raised some Rs 1,975 crore. Domestic individual investors, institutions as well as foreign investors have lapped up these issues and have shown an overwhelming response.     One can gauge the same from the fact that the total money collected against the total base issue size in this financial year was nearly 11 times compared with the previous three years, when oversubscription was a mere 2 to 3 times.     Image 1       Recently Dewan Housing Finance Corporation came out with an NCD with base issue size of Rs 1,000 crore and it saw nearly 18 times oversubscription on the first day itself.     After such a response, the company's board recently approved a proposal to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore by way of public issue of secured non-convertible debentures, with a green shoe option of up to Rs 8,000 crore.     Indiabulls Housing Finance recently said it would issue non-convertible redeemable debentures of up to Rs 1,600 crore (plus green shoe option) on a private placement basis.     Investors who have missed out on the opportunity to invest in the debt market via these NCDs will see more of such issues coming up shortly.     The risks associated with such investment include a spike in interest rates, in which case the market value may fall or if there is a fall in credit rating of the company.    (The author is Chairman and MD, SMC Investments and Advisors. Views and recommendations given in this section are his own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.) 

