URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/ites/hpe-expects-faster-india-growth-as-clients-panic-about-disruption/articleshow/53607315.cms

Title : HPE expects faster India growth as clients panic about disruption - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tech Mahindra,tech,Tata Consultancy,Neelam Dhawan,Mahindra,Hewlett Packard

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 01.17 AM IST

Document ID : 152

Content:
  MUMBAI: Hewlett Packard Enterprise expects faster growth in India as large Indian companies, even those belonging to the slow-moving public sector, begin to 'panic' about being disrupted by startups. Even previously cautious sectors like manufacturing are experimenting with the internet-of-things, the company's India head Neelam Dhawan told ET.     "Companies have understood that digital transformation is here to stay. Even the public sector has got it. We are starting to see them panic about how they will keep up and give customers what they want," Dhawan said.     She added that banking and telecom were beginning to increase their investment and even manufacturing companies were running pilots that would digitize their manufacturing through the internet-of-things.     "Supply chain is a big focus for manufacturing too. It is moving beyond the shop-floor automation. It's more about how we streamline the operations," Dhawan said. IT companies have become more bullish on spending from Indian corporates, which had been in the doldrums for the last few years.    Tata Consultancy Services, the largest Indian IT services company, reported an 8% jump in its revenue from the country in the fourth quarter, boosted mainly by spending from the private sector.     Fifth-largest player Tech Mahindra said it won a large digital deal in the quarter from an Indian bank. Hewlett Packard Enterprise is also increasing some of the work it does from India.     "We started with India for India but now we are also servicing the rest of the world from here. The number of people doing test and development is increasing in India. We have also started an innovation centre focused on smart cities and an internetof-things lab in Bangalore," Dhawan said.     Hewlett Packard split its business last year—with one unit focusing on enterprises and the other on consumers. Dhawan said the split would enable the company to serve its customers better.     "We wanted to become a nimble organisation. It makes us more agile, which will help us serve our customers, who also need that agility," the company's India head said.  

