URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/rajinikanths-kabali-smashes-all-box-office-records-collects-over-rs-40-crore/articleshow/53347794.cms

Title : Rajinikanth's 'Kabali' smashes all box office records, collects over Rs 40 crore - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,Rajinikanth,people,music,markets,Kabali,India,Cities,Business,box office

Date : Jul 23, 2016, 10.45 AM IST

Document ID : 55

Content:
  MUMBAI: Kasi theatre in the Ashok Nagar area of Chennai has traditionally been the place to immerse oneself in the euphoria of a Thalaivar movie screened on the first day, at the first show and Kabali was no different.     "People had started lining up from 2.30 am at the famous Kasi Theatre for the screening of Kabali at 4 am. There were a few traffic jams even in the early hours," said Jai Ganesh, a music producer from Chennai, who could not get the tickets at Kasi. He finally had to watch the movie at Ganga Theatre, Kolathur which is quite far from the city. "A few friends from the city had stayed back overnight at my house to catch the first day, first show because it was impossible to watch the movie at any of the city screens."     And it's not just Chennai or Tamil Nadu, where Superstar Rajinikant's movie is attracting his fans.      #Kabali      is now highest grossing      #Rajinikant      film in USA within just one day by beating      #Enthiran      .      @theVcreations @beemji     — Indian Boxoffice (@TradeBOC)    July 22, 2016     The whole nation seems to be taking a notice even as the estimation of first day collection, at over Rs 40 crore, suggests that the film is going to break the first day, as well as first weekend box office collection records. With most shows prebooked for the weekend, the film is expected to collect over Rs 120 crore in the first weekend, a figure, which could not be verified independently.      #Kabali      is now already becomes highest grossing tamil film in USA ever . Superstar power .      @theVcreations @beemji     — Indian Boxoffice (@TradeBOC)    July 23, 2016     Vijay Singh, CEO at Fox Star Studios, the film's distributor for non south markets, said, "Kabali has lived up to the high expectation and opened to packed houses across India.      Picture: BCCL    It was expected to garner an earth shattering opening in the southern markets and it is indeed phenomenal due to the star power of Rajinikanth." He added that across the territories where Fox Star Studios is distributing the film, the Tamil version has opened to around 90% occupancy, while the Hindi version is seeing a massive 50%.        Read also:    '   Kabali   ' review: A one-man   show,   and Rajini still has his swag     "As the advance booking has been remarkable and the word of mouth is excellent, we are looking forward to a good weekend number," he added. Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures added that in the southern markets, the film has opened on expected lines, but the non-traditional markets have seen very good opening. Gianchandani added that the pre-booking is also extremely strong for the film. Industry estimate shows that while the film opened in 6,500 screens, over 3,500 screens were fully booked for the first day, while over 2,000 screens are booked for the entire weekend. Largest online ticketing company Bookmyshow has also witnessed surge in the business with Kabali. "The online ticket sales started in the week of movie release.      Picture: PTI    They have undoubtedly been very good despite us having to initially compete with the mass hysteria of the film where people picked up tickets in bulk at the cinemas," Ashish Saksena, COO-Cinemas at BookMyShow said. "We are fully geared up for the advance sales for next week and the film is almost sold out all across. We have exceeded our average transaction price for Kabali bookings." Saksena is confident that the online movie ticket sales for the film will be among the top five sales of all time. The fact that the whole weekend is booked in advance has frustrated many movie aficionados in cities like Chennai and Bengaluru.      Picture: BCCL    Venkatesh Subramani, Founder of Bengaluru-based i2i Software said, "Most shows started here between 6 and 8 am. Some people found multiplex websites crashing." A fan had to purchase tickets in black for Rs 1,500 each in Chennai in order to watch his favorite superstar. There were reports fans were ready to shell out Rs 5,000 for tickets.         Read also:    All set for '   Kabali   '? Here are 10 facts about the   Rajinikanth-   starrer   that you probably didn't know      

