URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/internet/r-balki-quits-as-chairman-of-mullenlowe-lintas/articleshow/53614124.cms

Title : R Balki quits as chairman of MullenLowe Lintas - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Taslima Nasreen,Shobhaa De,R Balki,MullenLowe Lintas Group,Jwala Gutta,joseph george group ceo mullenlowe lintas group,balki

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 01.40 PM IST

Document ID : 172

Content:
  MUMBAI: Ad man R Balakrishnan, popularly known as Balki, has decided to step down from his position of group chairman at media agency MullenLowe Lintas Group. Balki, who has spent over three decades in advertising, is not just leaving the company, but also saying goodbye to advertising     Majority of Balki's advertising years have been spent at the MullenLowe Lintas Group, where he joined in 1994, in its Bangalore office.     Talking about his decision, Balki said, "We've been planning this for some time now. It's been a long process of succession planning that concludes with my move. The agency is at its strongest today and I leave feeling satisfied, proud and excited."     Alex Leikikh, Global CEO - MullenLowe Group, said, "Balki has been the architect of the stellar agency we have in India today. He leaves behind an operation that's successful and future-ready, a leadership team that's perhaps the strongest of any agency in India, and a culture that he shaped along the way while himself leading by example. While we will miss his infectiously passionate presence, we wish him even greater success as a film-maker."     Balki started his career in Mudra, before moving on to Lintas, where he spent over two decades. While with the agency, he's been the brain behind several acclaimed campaigns and brand ideas.     Joseph George, Group CEO, MullenLowe Lintas Group, who has worked closely with Balki through all of the 22 years said, "It is impossible and even foolish to try and replace someone like Balki; so we planned the transition differently. As early as July 2015, we put in place, a management structure that would help us move forward as an organisation, while also maximising the potential and aspirations of great individuals we have. Balki and I have tried to think this through every step of the way, and it's reached a place where we feel the agency is ready for today, and tomorrow."  

