URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/bullish-on-banking-commodities-mahantesh-sabarad-deputy-head-research-sbi-cap-securities/articleshow/53770416.cms

Title : Bullish on banking, commodities: Mahantesh Sabarad, Deputy Head Research, SBI Cap Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : So,preferences,NPA,nifty,n,markets,Market,liquidity,in,Gas,et now,ET,commodities

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 03.39 PM IST

Document ID : 472

Content:
  in a chat with ET Now, Mahantesh Sabarad, Deputy Head Research, SBI Cap Securities, says the metal companies will also see a huge amount of cost relief coming in from the cost of power and fuel that they generally consume. Edited excerpts        ET Now: How are you reading into the markets right now in terms of quite a few positives that we have been seeing so far -- be it GST, global factors as well which are currently at play with the RBI policy as well out the way. What is your outlook for the markets now?         Mahantesh Sabarad:    The market outlook seems to be a little edgy right now because we are inching close to six-year high valuation on Nifty index. That is coming as a little bit of a challenge. What we foresee is the market unless it is fed by an incremental liquidity flow coming from the various central banks' monetary easing policies, we will see the market actually moving down for some time. You are right that there are lot of things that have already been factored in the market good monsoons, passage of the GST bills, Seventh Pay Commission impact and so on so forth. So basically now the market is dependent on global cues.        ET Now: In terms of sector specific moves, do you have any favourites at this point of time? Banking clearly got a big boost post that big SBI merger but is that a sector that you would be betting on?         Mahantesh Sabarad:    Yes, I think banking is a sector that we have been bullish on for quite some time now and started sometime around when the AQR process began and we notice that there is a big clean up that is about to happen and in some ways has already happened. What we look forward to now in the banking space is substantial recovery momentum and that should help bring the NPA levels dramatically down. Therefore, that is the space that we would look forward to. Mind you, in terms of our preferences between the PSU as well as the private banks, some of the private bank names have also not done too well on the NPA front in terms of incremental slippages and books under watch.     The other sector is commodities because globally incremental liquidity may not be coming in. What we are seeing is that commodities have rallied on a sequential basis from the March quarter to the June quarter and are likely to rally a little further and such a situation you should be looking at in the entire commodity space. That includes even metal, oil marketing companies and some of the gas companies as well. So those are the sectors that look good now when the markets are likely to be moving sideways.        ET Now: What is the outlook when it comes to the overall metals pack? Do you think that on account of the fact that we have been seeing a little bit of a crunch down in volumes that it so contingent on global factors that this would perhaps be on the avoid list?         Mahantesh Sabarad:    No, not really. It is not on the avoid list. Basically, what we are looking at in the metal space is that because of the government's favourable policy, because of the extension of the MIP policy, we have seen a substantial uptick and the trade off between price and volume for commodities is right now trending to be favourable. So, price is moving up far sharper than the slowdown in the volumes that generally has been associated with the commodity or metal space. We think that trade off will work in their favour more. The metal companies will also see a huge amount of cost relief coming in from the cost of power and fuel that they generally consume. These are the factors that will make the sector look good.  

