URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//economy-fii-funds-push-markets/articleshow/12130119.cms

Title : Economy, FII funds push markets - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Spain,Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries,LTRO,income,greece,FII,European Central Bank,Election results,budget spending

Date :  Mar 04, 2012, 06.05 AM IST

Document ID : 422

Content:
      The stock market gyrations have left small investors prodding for answers. The steady climb of the Sensex over the past couple of months was a booster for equity investors. The recent blip - a 300 and odd points fall -is perceived as only a temporary correction and not a lasting downtrend .             While stock market investors need to exercise caution, here are a few events to look out for:        Debt crisis:      As an epicenter of the European sovereign debt crisis, Greece plunged into the abyss. Unchecked spending by the government over the past decades led to its deficit widen to gigantic proportions.             With around 142 per cent government debt-to-GDP ratio at one point, Greece is in deep economic trouble. Will the trouble spill over? If it does, it will impact the US, Europe's closest trading ally. When developed nations bear the brunt, it will be a matter of time before the emerging markets begin feeling the heat.             Strict austerity measures have damped demand in many debt-plagued nations including Greece, Italy and Spain. This isn't good news for nations already battling recession and contending with undesirable unemployment levels and inflation numbers.        Income dip:      Dipping income levels and an unemployment rate of 20 per cent will squeeze domestic household consumption and spending levels . After a drop of seven per cent in the economy in 2010, the year ahead is expected to follow with a fall of four per cent.             With lackluster domestic demand pulling the economy back, it is to be seen how well these nations battle the crisis.        Oil exports:      Iran is credited to be the second largest oil producer in the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). It produces about 3.5 million barrels of oil a day. The escalating row over Tehran's nuclear programme with the Western nations could disrupt exports of oil.             This can spell trouble for countries like India that are major importers of petroleum . Recently, the average price of Iran's crude oil for delivery to Asian markets went to USD 124.37 per barrel.             An increase in oil price increases transport costs that leads to a general increase in price levels. This again fuels inflation that is a cause for much concern. A major increase in oil prices could make the markets jittery.         LTRO:      The long-term refinancing option (LTRO) is suspected by some analysts to have fuelled the recent rally. The release of 500 billion Euros by the European Central Bank may have leaked partially into emerging markets as foreign institutional investor (FII) inflows.             The next installment is slated at around 750 billion Euros in a bid to flood the banking sector with ample liquidity to boost economic activity.             Domestic factors: On the domestic front, election results, budget spending, reforms and government measures to check misuse of funds for social schemes, will impact market sentiments.    

