URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//rbi-dances-centrestage-economy-gulps-for-air-as-global-typhoon-grips-world/articleshow/12038236.cms

Title : RBI dances centrestage; Economy gulps for air as global typhoon grips world - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Rupee,RBI,John Sparos,infrastructure,indian economy,IIP,Foreign Exchange market,FICCI,European countries

Date :  Feb 26, 2012, 02.57 AM IST

Document ID : 429

Content:
      The news on the Indian economy is not getting better. First, it was the news of a sub-seven per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal and now the Dec IIP numbers coming as another shocker. However, what has been really surprising is the dramatic pull back in rupee value in January 2012.             After touching a low of on 54.23 on December 15, 2011, the rupee has now touched 48.7 on February 6, 2012. While analysts have quickly attributed the recovery in rupee value to the resurgence in portfolio capital flows (cumulative portfolio flows from December 2011 - February 6, 2012 is now $11bn), we feel that the smart move by RBI of changing track and intervening in the forward exchange market, did the trick.             The RBI smartly changed track and intervened in the forward foreign exchange market in November 2011 after a gap of 12 months. Even though, there is an enormous amount of economic literature on the spot market intervention by central banks, there is little on forward markets.             One possible reason for such could be that the forward market interventions (typically swap transactions, buy sell or sell buy swaps, outright forward purchase / sales) are typically construed as an example of secret intervention that there are no official reports of intervention, even though the central bank indeed intervened.             Interestingly, in the 1950's and early 1960's there was a considerable debate on the efficacy of forward exchange market initiated by John Sparos, which is still relevant today. Going by John Sparos, the best way to fight currency speculation is to deliberately let the forward premia rise to unreasonable levels and thereby penalise the currency speculators as their exchange rate expectations about a depreciating domestic currency are belied.             Alternatively, if there is a depreciation of the domestic currency in the spot and the forward market, then the authorities must sell the foreign currency in the spot market (that is leaning against the wind) whereas the authorities must deliberately purchase the foreign currency in the forward market (leaning with the wind) in order to penalise the speculative players in the forward exchange market.             We call this policy in the forward exchange market as the Sparos effect, and it is precisely this Sparos effect that turned the tide for rupee. This is how it did.             Consider the following. The RBI was a net seller to the extent of $1.62 bn in forward market in November 2011. We believe, a part (possibly significant) of this forward sale was perhaps sellbuy swap (selling spot dollars in exchange for domestic rupee resources and buying them forward). This is because:             The RBI may have avoided outright forward market purchases, given that the central bank may avoid drawdown of foreign exchange reserves, faced with the prospect of a strain on the same by June 2012 (domestic debt as a per cent of foreign exchange reserves is 44 per cent.             During November 2011, the gross sale of forward dollars was $1.62 bn during the month. Since there was a significant increase in forward premia (across all spectrum) in November 2011, it is clear that such a transaction was primarily sell-buy swap. Most importantly, such sell buy swaps worked, as it immediately pushed up the forward premia in Nov.11, leading to rupee appreciation in subsequent months.             Clearly, the RBI strategy has worked in this case. The advantage of these swaps is that it merely changes the composition of foreign change reserves and hence is another way of sterilising capital inflows. However, there are disadvantages also. If the foreign exchange market is fairly thin, the use of foreign currency swaps for sterilization only adds volatility to the forward market.             Interestingly, as exposition 2 suggests, the volatility in rupee value that declined significantly from end Dec.2011 has started to increase again, that portends bad for the market!               Even after acknowledging the limitations of swap transactions, it has worked, with portfolio and export proceeds picking up enough steam post Nov.11 (refer exposition 3).             Finally, as the data suggests , there has been a liquidity withdrawal of nearly Rs 55,000 crore during Nov-Dec 2011, because of foreign exchange market intervention. This perhaps sets the perfect recipe of another round of CRR cut in Mar.. 12, to offset such a negative impact.         Focus: RBI Statements / News And Rupee Movements         Even as the RBI intervened in the forward exchange market, the apex bank also used indirect intervention measures (currency-supportive and press statements) as signalling mechanism to prop up the rupee. In particular, we specifically examined the impact of RBI statements in impacting the rupee movements.             Statements by the RBI were in turn categorized into good news and bad news. For instance news like "RBI concedes that it may be difficult to boost rupee. as a bad news, whereas. news like "RBI steps in to curb volatility in rupee. being construed as good news (refer table 1 for selected news). As expected , while good news was expected to strengthen the rupee, bad news was expected to weaken the rupee.             For our analysis, we analysed all statements made by the RBI during Aug 5 - Dec31.11 (we took the starting day as the date when the US economy was downgraded ). All good news were coded as +1, while all bad news were coded as -1 and both these were taken as independent variables. The dependent variable was ERt that was the appreciation / depreciation in exchange rate. The coefficient of good news was supposed to assume a positive value, and the coefficient of bad news was supposed to assume a negative value.             In concluding the analysis , it is worth mentioning that news of RBI intervention in the foreign exchange market does have an effect on the exchange rate. Hence, in unfavorable times it is important that the RBI uses the news channel as an important signaling mechanism to curb the volatility in the rupee value.         Focus: Debt Sustainability of European Countries         It is now clear that the European countries face an arduous road to recovery. In fact (exposition 4), if the net debt as a per cent GDP is any indication, the projections till 2016 reveal a scary prognosis ! While, the PIIGS countries net debt as a per cent of GDP on an average will stay above 100 per cent (Greece at 163 per cent and Spain at 77 per cent) at 2016, what is disturbing is the debt levels for France, Germany and also UK (France at 88 per cent, UK at 80 per cent and Germany at 75 per cent at 2016).               Subsequently, we estimated the sustainability of such projected debt by calculating the required primary surplus as a percentage of GDP and the range of permissible interest rate that would guarantee such a surplus. For this, we did simulations for the required surplus with the various permissible interest rates. The results were interesting.             France and Germany reflects a border line case i.e. with the current interest rates, they are running minor surpluses. However, an increase in interest rate at the projected growth rates (over 2011-2016 ) may require these countries to generate a primary surplus as much as 2 per cent of GDP.             As far as Spain is concerned , the required primary surplus may be as much as 4 per cent of GDP. For Italy, the situation looks even grim, with estimated primary surplus at 6 per cent of GDP.             As expected, countries like Greece and Portugal, are already running huge deficits. Even a fall of the interest rate to a minimum level will not guarantee a surplus in the near future as well. For the statistically minded, for Greece the required ratio was just below 30 per cent of GDP, while for Portugal, it was 12 per cent of GDP.        Focus: Proposed Treaty Of Stability        Recently, the European economies signed a Treaty of Stability that will be operational in a couple of weeks from now.             However, even as the European economies have embarked on a new fiscal treaty, it may be worthwhile to recollect that the Maastricht Treaty signed in February 1992 by the members of the 12 European States failed to keep up to its expectations.             The failure of Maastricht Treaty as discussed has now led to the framing of the Treaty on Stability that lays down harsher criteria for the member states (refer table 3 for a quick comparison of the treaties then now).            The Maastricht Treaty was built to strengthen EU.s economic base and motivate political integration but was not followed properly by all the members.             There are various reasons cited for such a failure with one of the important reason being the absence of a political union in the form of a Central European government. It remains to be seen how far the proposed treaty is a success , but importantly a beginning has at least been made!        India: Output And Prices        Real GDP growth rate for 2011-12 is projected at 6.9 per cent. However, this growth rate was achieved basis a significant downward revision in the quick estimates for 2010-11 . Additionally, even this projection may be difficult to achieve, as the construction sector and even the trade, hotels, transport and communication sector growth rate in second half of current fiscal basis 6.9 per cent may be on the higher side.         India: Public Finance Focus: Food Subsidy Bill        Food deprivation and malnutrition are completely unacceptable and everything has to be done to eliminate such an evil. The prevalence of malnutrition in a country like India is in itself a cause for serious concern since malnourished children may jeopardize India.s favorable demographic dividend (as per independent estimates, close to 60 per cent of India.s population is between the age group of 15-59 years).             However the question is whether we can afford to have a food subsidy bill (FSB) and if such an endeavor is economically sustainable . This paper tries to argue that the fiscal viability of the proposed FSB is not clear and the delivery outcomes could be highly compromised given the governance weaknesses and ineffective delivery mechanisms in place.             FICCI estimates that the cost to the exchequer of implementing FSB amounts to Rs 143,000 crores, in year 1. This amount is far higher (more than double) than the budgeted food subsidy estimates for current fiscal at Rs 60,000 crores. Moreover, the incremental estimate of Rs 20,000 crore which has been put out by the Government on the basis of only some incremental costs is a gross underestimate.             In fact, our estimate is the minimum one and it still is close to Rs 4,57,000 crores in first 3 years (close to Rs 5,00,000 crores, if we add administrative cost). This is not very much different from estimates in the first three years that pegs it even higher (Rs 6,00,000 crores made by Ashok Gulati). This apart, we estimate that the total minimum foodgrains requirement for this endeavor will be 61 million tonnes.             Next, the question is, the fiscal sustainability of the FSB. The current state of the revenue and expenditure trends of the Central Government (refer table 5) show that while revenue growth has significantly weakened, the expenditure growth has accelerated sharply. In particular, during the last 5 years (FY11 over FY06) tax revenues have increased only by 13 per cent, as compared to 15 per cent between FY04 & FY06.             On the other hand, non plan expenditure during FY06-FY 11 (i.e. subsidies have grown by 30 per cent and interest payments by 13 per cent) is significantly higher than over the period FY04-FY 06. Additionally, gross market borrowings increased by 32 per cent during FY06-FY 11, against a decline of 2 per cent in the earlier period.             In fact, the fiscal stress being currently faced is worryingly similar (if not worse) to the decade of 80.s that witnessed a sharp deterioration finally leading to the 1991 crisis. For example, market borrowings had increased by 12 per cent for the decade ended 1991, while they have increased by 32 per cent in the last five years; non plan expenditure had increased by 20 per cent during the 80's and has now increased by 30 per cent and fiscal deficit itself has increased at the rate of 30 per cent during the last 5 years as compared to 18 per cent for the decade ended 1991.             Disturbingly, it is the composition of fiscal deficit that is worrying, with revenue deficit increasing at a much faster pace than fiscal deficit (same scenario as in 1980.s) and thus productive capital expenditure being squeezed out. It is clear that some very urgent and strong steps are today required to avert any fiscal crisis. In this context, the fiscal sustainability of the FSB is seriously in doubt.             Some observers however argue that it is churlish to argue against additional financial allocations for fighting the curse of hunger and malnutrition when the central government regularly forgoes huge amount of revenues. This argument is based on the statement of revenue forgone included in the Annual Union Budget Statement.             It is important to examine the veracity of this argument specially because, as eminent a person Prof. Amartya Sen cited this in his recent P R Brahmananda Memorial lecture delivered at the Indian Economy Association Annual Conference in Pune in December. A closure look at these concessions however reflects the following:             "Excise duty concession of Rs. 198,291 crores: These are revenue forgone on account of mass consumption goods like medicines, tooth power, candles, post cards, sewing needles, kerosene stoves, etc. Clearly exacting the excise duty from these items would have worsened the fate of the poor.             "Customs duty concessions of Rs. 174,418 crores: These are concessions for importable goods consumed for exports as defined under Section 25 (1) of the Customs Act. It is important to note in this context that import duties on components used for exports are universally exempt as taxes are not supposed to be exported.              Moreover, is it anybody's case that these import duty concessions to be removed because by doing so, we may lose a significant part of our total export revenue (Of this, gems and jewellery exports alone contribute closely to 15 per cent of exports).             "Personal Income Tax concessions of Rs. 50,658 cores are primarily related to exemption limits for Income tax assesses iV these will have insurance premia, contribution of charities and political parties, interest payments on loans for higher education, etc. This could arguably be eliminated but are we prepared for the distress that it will cause to the salaried class?             "Finally, tax concession of Rs. 88,623. crores are primarily related to export undertakings established in Special Economic Zones and to 100 per cent export oriented units. Others areas for concession are under this head are accelerated depreciation for industries established in new and hilly regions, scientific research, accelerated depreciation, industries in backward and hilly areas and even contribution to political parties.             However, studies including one by ICRIER in 2007 (Impact of Special Economic Zones on Employment, Poverty and Human Development - Aradhna Aggarwal) and by Reddy etc all in 2010 show that SEZs have significant positive impact on foreign exchange earnings, employment generation and hence poverty reduction. The net cost benefit impact of SEZ is hence highly positive.             Given the above details, it may not be completely misplaced to argue that the additional expenditure for implementing the FSB is far greater, by order of magnitude to any actual revenue forgone for promoting economic activity in the country.             To conclude, to implement such type of food safety bills, we need to improve our delivery mechanisms drastically to plug the leakages. A significant portion of foodgrains , mainly rice and wheat, meant to be distributed to eligible families under PDS gets diverted to open market.             The diversion rate was estimated around 36 per cent in 2004-05 (study quoted by Ministry of Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution). Measures like involving gram panchayats, self help groups, van suraksha samitis and other community institutions in the running of fair price shops could be used as an effective delivery mechanism to plug leakages (Banerjee & Tiwari, ET, Jan 28.12).             These apart, delivery mechanisms like cash transfers / food stamps could also be successfully replicated in India. For example, the largest cash transfers such as Brazil.s Bolsa Familia and Mexico.s Oportunidades, cover millions of households.             The food stamp programme is also a central component of America.s nutrition assistance safety net. The stated purpose of this i°to permit low-income households to obtain a more nutritious diet by increasing their purchasing poweri± (The Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended, P.L. 95-113 ).             Food Security, an urgent necessity, will be ensured only when Indian agriculture is modernized and productivity and yields rise in the coming years. In our view, it will therefore be far more effective and sustainable to allocate additional public resources for developing agriculture, infrastructure and delivering new technologies to the sector. This will more effectively ensure food security in the country.    

