URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/want-to-make-your-life-a-little-less-stressful-these-apps-are-here-to-help/articleshow/53520930.cms

Title : Want to make your life a little less stressful? These apps are here to help! - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wunderlist,workflow,polymail,pocket,Paper by Fifty Three,letterspace,iPhone,Google Keep,Google,Fantastical 2,Evernote,day one,Apple,android

Date : Aug 03, 2016, 01.26 PM IST

Document ID : 279

Content:
 By Nathan Mcalone    Apps are more powerful than ever, but it's hard to know which ones will waste your time and which ones will save it. That's why we've assembled a list of apps that will make you more productive, and take away some of the stress from your life.     Workflow is a powerful way to save time by automating your life    Workf low lets you customise your phone so that you can skip time-wasting tasks. By telling your phone what to do when it notices a certain action, you can instruct your phone to call an Uber before your next calendar appointment, upload your latest photo to Twitter and virtually any other string of actions you can think of.   Price:  $2.99 (iOS)    Polymail is an email app that gives you features without compromising simplicity    Polymail gives you things like email tracking and the ability to read and send later. But the best part is its simple design.   Price:  Free (iOS)    Paper by Fifty Three combines sketching and writing    Paper for iPhone is an app that expands the notion of what 'taking notes' means on your phone. You can use it to make everything from lists to presentations that include charts and graphs. It helps translate the experience you have writing on 'paper' to your phone — bringing back all the tasks that more traditional note-taking apps lack.   Price:  Free (iOS)    Pocket lets you save articles to read offline later — on any device    It's easy to forget to come back to an article you want to read when you're furiously browsing the internet. But with Pocket, you can easily send that article to any device and read it later. Pocket, with one click, compiles and sends the article to an archive you can read on your phone, tablet, or computer.   Price:  Free (iOS, Android)    Day One is a classy app for keeping a journal    Day One brings the daily journal into the m o d e r n age, and it's great for microjournaling or whatever you want your daily writing to look like. The app can record the weather conditions and location of your entry, and if you're particularly proud of a day's journal, you can upload it easily to Facebook in a gorgeous webpage format.   Price:  $4.99 (iOS)    Google Keep jazzes up your notes    Google Keep is a bit like Google's version of Evernote, and it's now available on both iOS and Android. You can use the app to take notes, jot down to-do lists, set reminders and record audio. And one of its main charms is the ability to organise your notes with coloured labels.   Price:  Free (iOS, Android)      You can also speak aloud a voice memo and store it on Google Keep, Image: Google.com   Wunderlist takes your to-do lists to the next level    Wunderlist is an easy-to-use to-do list app. It lets you set due dates and reminders and share lists or have conversations about them. Wunderlist can help you organise your grocery list, remember movies you want to see, or collaborate to help plan a vacation.   Price:  Free (iOS, Android)    Letterspace is an innovative note-taking app    Letterspace is a beautiful note-taking app that uses hashtags to organise your thoughts. It also has a handy swipe bar that lets you move your on-screen cursor without moving your hands from the keyboard, which makes editing your notes much easier.   Price:  Free (iOS)     Now use hashtags to organise your thoughts with Letterspace, Image: Apple.com  Fantastical 2 is a calendar app that is insanely simple to use    Besides keeping you or g a n i s e d , Fantastical 2's best feature lets you enter simple phrases, which it will then translate into a calendar appointment automatically. For example you can type, "Meet with Steven for lunch at Chipotle at 3 pm" and Fantastical will handle the rest. And the rest of the app follows this pattern of amazing convenience.   Price:  $4.99 (iOS)        Read More:    ET Recommendation: Gadgets and apps    

