URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/ites/microsoft-unveils-new-platform-to-improve-accuracy-of-predicting-cricket-scores/articleshow/53607411.cms

Title : Microsoft unveils new platform to improve accuracy of predicting Cricket scores - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : technology,Sports,Microsoft,Javagal Srinath,Education,Cricket,Bengaluru

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 01.33 AM IST

Document ID : 151

Content:
  BENGALURU: Microsoft has unveiled a new platform that enables developers to improve the accuracy of predicting target scores in weather-interrupted cricket matches besides helping sports administrators manage other sports related activities. The platform uses machine learning and allows developers to incorporate multiple parameters such as playing conditions, weather and the nature of cricket ground to estimate these target scores.     "We believe the possibilities for machine learning in sports are vast - from monitoring player condition on the field to predicting injuries and taking early preventive actions," said Joseph Sirosh, corporate vice president of Data Group at Microsoft.     The existing system prioritises the strength of the batsmen from top position, hence if you reverse the order, you can confuse the system to some extent, said former India cricketer Javagal Srinath during a panel discussion organised by Microsoft.     "This could be ideally fixed when every batsman has a ranking and that ranking is accommodated into the system, thereby providing the true strength of the team's batting strength which is possible with this system," said Srinath, who is currently an International Cricket Council match referee.     He further said, "Similarly, a bowler who has been in the form in the last six months to a year will have a better impact on the game. The best part of this tool is that it can be updated with this information, making it more accurate."     Apart from sports, government projects form another key area for the US-based technology company.     It has expanded its education pilot in Andhra Pradesh and recently signed a similar partnership with Punjab. The pilot, first rolled out in Chittoor district of AP in August 2015, uses machine learning to analyse and predict dropouts, and take preventive action.     In June, Microsoft partnered the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics to develop a sowing app that provides farmers with crucial information and insights to help reduce crop failures and increase yield.     Microsoft India research and development managing director Anil Bhansali said the company started its machine learning journey with education, agriculture and healthcare sectors since it reaches a wider audience and is now evaluating other sectors such as public safety, transportation and fraud detection.     "We have great opportunities in public and private sectors. These technologies enable private sector companies to be significantly more efficient by growing their revenues and reducing expenses to compete better in the global market," said Sirosh.  

