URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-dalal-street-had-a-muted-show-sbi-metal-stocks-save-the-day/articleshow/53770738.cms

Title : Mapping the market: Dalal Street had a muted show; SBI, metal stocks save the day - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : vedanta,Unitech,Tata Steel,stocks,Southeast Asia,Shipping Corporation of India,shares of vedanta tata steel sail,Shares,Sensex,SCI,SBI,SAIL,regional,Rahul Dravid,Petronet,Open Interest,NSE,new delhi dalal street,New Delhi,new,metal,Market,JP ASSOCIATES,Jindal Steel,India Cement,India,in,Hindalco,economy,Dalal Street,Bhartiya Mahila Bank,benchmark

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 04.07 PM IST

Document ID : 457

Content:
 NEW DELHI: Dalal Street was in the 'Thank god, it's Friday' mood, as the domestic equity market remained sluggish despite a SBI-led big opening.     But as the initial euphoria dissipated, it was consolidation Rahul Dravid style, as the benchmark index held near their 11-month highs.     The S&P; BSE Sensex closed 46 per cent lower at 28,077 while the 50-share Nifty50 ended the day at 8,666, down 6 points.     Before you head of the nearest club to enjoy the weekend ahead, let's skim through the day's highlights.    SBI's big day on stage: SBI's merger with its five associate banks and Bhartiya Mahila Bank left investors overjoyed. The country's largest lender saw its shares rally a staggering 4.13 per cent during the session. Stocks of the associate banks gained as much as 9 per cent on the back of the merger announcement.       SCI sank on Q1 numbers:  The Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), which was deemed profitable by the Prime Minister himself, disappointed with its June quarter numbers, as it reported a 72.5 per cent drop in net profit, causing the stock to plunge 5.32 per cent. But what hurt most is the drop in top line growth to 21.66 per cent. The stock slid xx per cent.       Metal stocks surged:  The metals counter was in the green as positive demand outlook in the domestic economy and increasing demand in Southeast Asia buoyed investor sentiments. Shares of Vedanta, Tata Steel, SAIL and Jindal Steel surged as much 5 per cent during the session. Moody's in a recent string of reports said India's domestic demand will outstrip regional demand for steel.       Most active securities:  SBI was the most actively-traded security on NSE, as expected, as the stock surged 4.13 per cent. It was followed by JP Associates and SAIL, which gained 2 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively. Other prominent names included Unitech (down 1 per cent), Vedanta (up 4 per cent) and Hindalco (up 3 per cent).       Spurt on open interest: Petronet saw surprisingly high spurt in open interest (OI) at 38 per cent as the stock rallied 5.3 per cent in cash market. Marico was the second in line with a 26 per cent surge in OI, while JP Associates came in third with a 25.11 per cent growth in OI. Other big gainers in terms of OI included SAIL (21.6 per cent), India Cement (16.5 per cent) and IRB (19.8 per cent).     

