URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/twelve-stocks-in-focus-on-wednesday-03-august-2016/articleshow/53516361.cms

Title : Twelve stocks in focus on Wednesday, 03 August 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Yes Bank,Wipro,ugar,Torrent Power,Reliance Industries,NMDC,Larsen & Toubro,L&T,Karnataka Bank,Insecticides (India),Eicher Motors,Crude oil,BPCL,Bharti Airtel,Axis Bank

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 821

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Wednesday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "We expect a short-term correction if market moves below 8,640 level. However, as the medium term trend is extremely bullish, any medium-term pull back or correction is expected to reverse quickly and should found support at 8,400-8,450 level," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.     "Going forward, market movement will depend on FII and DII trading activity, quarterly results of the major companies and price movement of crude oil in the international market," he added.    Here is a list of top twelve stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Reliance Industries:  Government auditor CAG has red- flagged $1.6 billion of excess cost recovered by Reliance Industries in the KG-D6 gas block and took note of state-owned ONGC's gas flowing into the eastern offshore fields of the Mukesh Ambani-led firm.    Wipro:  In a CAG report, Wipro has been accused of 'undue favours' in the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) project.    Logistics companies:  The long-pending GST Bill was on Monday listed for consideration and passage in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday amidst strong indications that the most far-reaching taxation reform in independent India would be supported by Congress and all other major political parties.    Piramal Enterprises  has said it is looking to raise Rs 215 crore through issue of non-convertible debentures on private placement basis.    MSCI Rejig:  The weights of stocks such as  Axis Bank, Yes Bank, BPCL and Eicher Motors  is likely to increase in the range of 0.2-2.9 per cent during the upcoming tweaking of the MSCI India index, a widely tracked emerging market index by global funds.    Bharti Airtel:  Verizon Digital Media Services has tied up with Bharti Airtel to launch new points of presence in four cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore and New Delhi.    UFO Moviez India:  Leading digital cinema distribution network UFO Moviez India has posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 9.8 crore for the quarter ended June 30, as compared to Rs 13.3 crore in the year ago period.    Torrent Power:  The company on Tuesday reported a 79.55 per cent drop in consolidated net profit at Rs 45.62 crore for the fiscal first quarter that ended on June 30.    Karnataka Bank:  Karnatakla Bank aims to achieve export credit target of ?2,490 crore during the current financial year, a media report said quoting P Jayarama Bhat, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank.    NMDC:  State-owned miner National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) may foray into rare earth minerals and beach sand mining, among others, according to official sources.    L&T;:  Larsen & Toubro Infotech Limited, a global Information Technology services & solutions company and a subsidiary of Larsen & Toubro Limited, announced a strategicalliance with Pegasystems.    Insecticides (India) Ltd:  The company has entered an agreement with Hyderabad Chemical Private Limited, a subsidiary of Nihon Nohyaku Co. Ltd., Japan for marketing the product 'SUZUKA' within territory of India.    Ugar Sugar:  The company reported a net profit of Rs 1.1 crore for the quarter ended June 30 compared to a net loss of Rs 92.60 crore reported in the year-ago period.    

