URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/20-difficult-questions-asked-in-google-interviews/articleshow/53447356.cms

Title : 20 difficult questions asked in Google interviews - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,product,people,P,MS,mean,Interviews,in,hyderabad,Golf,end,AdWords,ADS

Date : Jul 29, 2016, 12.59 PM IST

Document ID : 56

Content:
  Getting a job at Google is surely a dream for most.     Ranked among the world's 'best workplaces' year after year, Google is also one of the toughest companies to get into.     The company is known for asking difficult and tricky interview questions. While it's never easy or rather impossible to guess the interview questions one will have to face, it is always better to prepare as best as one can for the job he/she is applying for. Here we've compiled a list of some of the most difficult questions asked during job interviews at Google for a variety of job profiles.     All these questions were submitted to the job-community website Glassdoor by users who were interviewed at Google.     While some of these candidates made it, it was hard luck for others.    Profile: Software engineer   Question: Implement a binary tree and explain it's function.    Profile: Associate product manager   Question: What is the marginal cost of a gigabyte in gmail?    Profile: Software engineer   Question: Create a cost model that allows Google to make purchasing decisions on to compare the cost of purchasing more RAM memory for their servers vs. buying more disk space.    Profile: Software engineer   Question: Write an iterator over multiple collections.    Profile: Software engineer   Question: How do you check if a URL is bad really fast in Google server. The point is for the user not to notice the lag in the checking    Profile: Senior Software engineer   Question: Develop a solution to convex hull and state its complexity.    Profile: Senior Software engineer   Question: How many golf balls can fit in a school bus?    Profile: Engineer   Question: If you were given the land prices in the Bay Area, what would you pick, the mean or the median? Why?    Profile: Product manager   Question: What happens from the point when you type in a URL in your browser to the point the page gets displayed?    Profile: Product manager   Question: If you host a celebrity website which displays ads and suddenly notice a drop in traffic to your site/clicks on ads, how do you root cause the issue?    Profile: AdSense account manager   Question: what is the next billion dollar idea for Google?    Profile: Programmer   Question: How would you implement an MS Paint clone?    What objects and methods would you need, how would they draw on the canvas, and what UI elements would be necessary?    Profile: Patent docketing specialist   Question: You have 7 balls. One weighs more than the others (not significantly). You have a scale, like the scales of justice. Describe how to find the weighted ball only using the scale twice.    Profile: Project manager   Question: If you have a vacant field and add one flower and the number of flowers doubles everyday and at the end of 45 days, the field is full, on what day is the field half full?    Profile: Rich media campaign manager   Question: How many people do you think are using their cell phone in the entire world at this very moment?    Profile: Mobile Product Manager Interview   Question: Do you know what "Peak Oil" is? Yes? good. You are the product manager of Peak Oil for Google. What do you do?    Profile: Software engineer   Question: Design a system or algorithm to catalog all of the worlds books?    Profile: AdWords representative   Question: How many buses are there in Hyderabad?    Profile: Senior software engineer   Question: Write a probability formula to tell how many bits will be changed when 1 is added to a 32 bit binary number.    Profile: Industry Leader Interview   Question: How do you think Media Agencies make money?        Also read:    Backed by Google, Chinese watch takes on Apple in the US with Mobvoi's Ticwatch        Also read:    Google Maps for Android gets Wi-Fi only mode, notifications for mass transit delays       

