URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/what-should-be-your-debt-investment-strategy-now/articleshow/50875304.cms

Title : What should be your debt investment strategy now - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Short-duration funds,RBI,Gilt funds,ET Wealth,dynamic funds

Date :  Feb 08, 2016, 07.52 AM IST

Document ID : 854

Content:
  In its latest policy review, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), expectedly, left the repo rate and the cash reserve ratio unchanged at 6.75% and 4% respectively. The central bank's advice to the government on inflation and fiscal discipline, however, spooked the market. The yield on 10-year government bonds moved up six basis points (bps) to 7.85%.     Even though there will be a short-term spike in inflation because of the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, consumer inflation is likely to remain close to the RBI's 5% target for 2016-17. "The complete pass through of commodity prices has not happened, so the downward pressure on consumer price infaltion will continue," says R. Sivakumar, Head, Fixed Income, Axis Bank Mutual Fund. After two years of poor monsoon, there is also hope that the rains will be good this year.     The RBI said it would opt for an easy monetary policy if the government maintained fiscal balance. The expenditure on account of the seventh Pay Commission recommendations, to be earmarked in the forthcoming Budget, will play a key role. Maintaning fiscal discipline, however, will be difficult because of other demands, re-capitalisation of public sector banks, for instance. Though not directly linked to the debt market, the performance of the stock market in February will be crucial. A poor show may put pressure on the rupee, which, in turn, will curtail the RBI's ability to cut rates. A performance in February, after one of the worst stock market performances in January, will also put pressure on the government. And moves to revive the economy with increased public spending and reduction in taxes, in turn, will have fiscal repercussions. "Any relaxation in fiscal prudence will be inflationary and the RBI may take a hawkish stance on future rate cuts," says Pankaj Sharma, Head of Equities, Equirus Securities.     So, what should investors do? Much would depend on the interest rate structure, which is expected to come down. Experts expect a 25 bps rate cut after the Budget. More rate cuts are expected to follow.     Go for long duration gilt funds   Despite a 125 bps cut by the RBI in the past one year, the government bond yield is again at one-year-old levels. Even the best performing long duration gilt funds have not been able to generate decent returns. However, this provides a good opportunity for long-term investors. Lending rates and bond yields are higher than what even the RBI would want. Yields may start coming down once systemic liquidity (cash supply) improves. Though interest rates are headed downward, there might be more short-term volatility close to the Budget. Investors who can withstand this should consider long duration gilt funds. They should also have a reasonably long holding period.    Short-duration funds  This is the best option for investors with small holding periods, or those relatively risk-averse. This category has done well in the past and since short-term rates are at higher levels now, this segment should continue to generate good returns. However, be choose well. "Look at short-duration funds that maintains good asset quality," says Sivakumar. The economy is going through a stress period and the credit scenario is bad. You should avoid any scheme that uses aggressive strategy with lower rated bonds.    Dynamic funds  The general suggestion is investors should go with dynamic funds and leave the timing to fund managers. However, the performance of dynamic funds has not been great of late.          ( Source ACE MF; Compiled by ETIG Database; NAV, returns as on Feb 2; AUM as on Dec 2015. Only schemes with Rs 100 cr AUM considered)  

