URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/the-week-that-was-how-d-st-waded-through-earnings-disappointments-and-global-setbacks/articleshow/53363848.cms

Title : The week that was: How D-St waded through earnings disappointments and global setbacks - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wealth,US,Ultratech Cement,Tata Motors,Sensex,regional,Parties,Nitish Kumar,New Delhi,mayawati,Market,ITC,India,Idea Cellular,HUL,HDFC bank,Federal Reserve,equities,earnings,Crude oil,Coal India,Business,BPCL,Baroda,Bank of Baroda,Axis Bank,Auto,Aurobindo Pharma,ACC

Date :  Jul 24, 2016, 02.04 PM IST

Document ID : 825

Content:
  NEW DELHI: It was a week marked by consolidation in the market as the monsoon session of Parliament kicked off and more bluechip companies came out with their June quarter earnings.     Disappointment over dearth of positive surprises in June quarter earnings of IT and banking majors restricted any upside for the market, while the European Central Bank (ECB) turned cautious over additional stimulus and its comment on the likely impact of Brexit raised questions over the ongoing liquidity-driven, risk-on rally.     Bank of Japan governor Haruhiko Kuroda's comments in mid-June on helicopter money also came in as a dampener, though a BoJ spokesperson later clarified that the comments was only reiteration of Kuroda's usual stance on the issue.     "There was not much to move the market, except for Q1 results, which have been largely mixed," said Pankaj Sharma, Head of Equities, Equirus Securities.     The BSE Sensex shed 33.26 points, or 0.12 per cent, to settle the week at 27,803.24 on Friday. The Nifty50 lost 0.20 points for the week to end 8,541.20 points lower.     The week saw stock-specific actions, with 19 of the top 500 stocks witnessing gains of anywhere between 10 per cent and 26 per cent, while 26 others tumbled between 5 per cent and 12 per cent.     While the largecap indices largely moved sideways amid a slew of quarterly results from heavyweights, including HDFC Bank and ITC, the midcap and smallcap stocks rallied.     The BSE Midcap index gained 1.3 per cent for the week and the BSE smallcap index 1.1 per cent. It was evident from the fact that equity investor wealth, as measured by the BSE market capitalisation, climbed by Rs 88,593 crore during the week to hit a record high of Rs 1,06,84,946 crore on Friday.    Crude oil prices fell 4 per cent during the week. Yet, the BSE Oil & Gas index, with a 2.5 per cent rise, emerged the top sectoral gainer for the week. It was followed by the BSE Healthcare (up 1.9 per cent), BSE Auto (up 1.1 per cent), BSE Realty (up 0.8 per cent), BSE Power (up 0.8 per cent), BSE Metal (up 0.7 per cent) and BSE IT (up 0.4 per cent) indices also stayed on top of the sectoral charts.     The rally in the PSU bank stocks on the Centre's Rs 22,915 crore fund infusion in 13 public sector banks proved shortlived. Overall, the BSE Bankex fell 1.6 per cent during the week.     The BSE Consumer Durables index fell 1.2 per cent.     Among the Nifty50 gainers, the Tata Motors DVR soared 5.7 per cent for the week, followed by BPCL (up 5.1 per cent), Aurobindo Pharma (up 4.9 per cent), ACC (up 4.2 per cent), Coal India (up 4 per cent) and UltraTech Cement (up 3.1 per cent).     Bank of Baroda (down 8.3 per cent), Axis Bank (down 4.8 per cent), HUL (down 4.1 per cent), Idea Cellular (down 3.96 per cent) and SBI (down 3.50 per cent) remained some of the major Nifty50 losers of the week.    Outlook  Many domestic and global events are lined up for the week, which can influence market sentiments. Among global cues, all eyes would be on the two-day US Federal Reserve meeting starting Tuesday. Britain's GDP numbers will be out on Wednesday, euro zone's business and consumer survey and industrial sentiment data on Thursday and second quarter US preliminary data on Friday.     Euro zone's GDP data and Japanese industrial production and Bank of Japan's policy review are lined up for Friday, which will be other noteworthy events of the week.    As many as 328 BSE-listed companies are scheduled to report their quarterly earnings during the week. Another 78 companies will announce their numbers on Saturday. A host of PSU banks will announce their results this week. Analysts believe poor numbers, from any these companies, could hurt market sentiment. The GST will be another trigger to look at.     "There is support for the bill not just from many regional parties (including the staunch adversaries of the BJP such as Janata Dal-United of Nitish Kumar and Bahujan Samaj Party of Mayawati) but increasingly the Congress has started to look more and more isolated on the issue. So, it may a be pragmatic decision for the Congress to support the bill after getting a few of its demands incorporated and that would be a 'win-win' outcome for everyone," said Sharma of Equirus Securities.     "If the GST bill goes through, it will be an important sentiment booster for the market. There will be a few more important quarterly results next week and they would matter to individual stocks, but we would continue to maintain that the results need to be significantly above expectations for the market to look at the Q1 numbers favourably, and that alone can act as a catalyst," Sharma said.  

