URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/why-you-should-pray-for-a-correction-in-the-domestic-stock-market-asap/articleshow/53734233.cms

Title : Why you should pray for a correction in the domestic stock market ASAP - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stock market,OBC Life Insurance,IIP growth,FIIS

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 02.00 PM IST

Document ID : 458

Content:
  NEW DELHI: It has been an appetising run so far for the domestic equity market.     With liquidity providing the fuel and monsoon the fire, the benchmark equity indices are near their one-year highs.     But, it's time to pray, pray for a crash.     "It is reasonable for the market to take a pause after the 16 per cent rally that we have seen over the past few months, driven largely by strength in the domestic economy and the abundant liquidity flow that we saw from FIIs," Ritu Gangrade Arora, CIO, Canara HSBC OBC Life Insurance, told ET Now.     Those signs of strength in the domestic economy are slowing, with commercial vehicle sales rising by a marginal 0.1 per cent in July (YoY) and IIP growth in June coming in at 2.1%.     From a valuation point of view, though, the time is ripe for a correction.     "There tends to be froth if you start overlooking the fundamentals. So at 18.5 times of FY2017 earnings, we are quite well priced. The Indian market has traded up to 22-23 times PE, but for that, it needs to be substantiated with better corporate earnings," Gangrade said.     This doesn't take away the fact that market participants expect the current bull market to only gain strength going forward.     Some experts are going so far as to suggest that the benchmark stock indices could follow their midcap peers to record highs over the next three months.     "I think for the Indian market, the festive season in near when the entire dispatches go in and almost 40-50 per cent of economic activity is focused on these three months," said Ajay Srivastava, CEO, Dimensions Consulting.     Add to that, the robust retail inflow into the equity markets via the mutual fund route and you start getting a clearer picture behind the bullishness.     "Qualitatively, there is a difference in the rally we saw abroad and the one in India. If you look at the US mutual fund industry, it is not growing as robustly as Indian mutual funds are. To that extent, there is a lot of pent-up liquidity in this country, which is supporting this market compared with perhaps with other global markets," Srivastava said.     This precisely is the reason why market veterans are seeing the need for a good correction in the market.     "A pause or consolidation is welcome and will give us opportunities to build positions for a long-term positive direction for the market that we anticipate," Gangrade said.  

