URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//concept-of-serviced-apartments-is-rising-fast-in-kormangala/articleshow/12491770.cms

Title : Concept of serviced apartments is rising fast in Kormangala - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wakefield,Serviced apartments,Raheja Residency,Kormangala,IT hub,Brigade Group,Bangalore,advertising and networking

Date :  Apr 01, 2012, 03.10 PM IST

Document ID : 418

Content:
      KORAMANGALA: With companies on a fast-track after slowdown rebound, the focus is now on employees' comfort, while being cost conscious. This has led to a surge in the demand for serviced apartments that offer more value for money than five star hotel rooms. And Koramangala, being an IT hub, now boasts of more than 50 service apartments with an average occupancy of 60 per cent as against 20-30 per cent during slowdown.        High occupacy rate        "Typically, serviced apartments in the city on an average were having an occupancy rate of 70 per cent with room rates of Rs 3,200 - 3,500 per day. The present rates are around Rs3,000 per day with occupancies between 60 and 70 per cent across the city. This is up by about 10-15 per cent increase in rate and upto about 25 per cent in occupancy from the time of recession," said Akshay Kulkarni — regional director, hospitality, south and southeast Asia — Cushman & Wakefield.             They are commercial real estate brokers and consultants. Being a central point for not only IT professionals, but many prime hospitals, including Manipal and St Johns, these apartments attract tourists from various countries.             "Koramangla is strategically located. Its proximity to EGL, Indiranagar, the elevated road to Electronic City makes it an ideal location for people and companies whose work takes them to different parts of the city," he adds. The main client base is the corporate, with nearly 50 per cent occupancy.                 Around 25 per cent are people who come for medical treatments and remaining 25 per cent are tourists and people who have come to attend weddings. On an average, guests stay for 5 to 10 days, but inventories are sold on daily basis as well. The rates vary from Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 per day depending on the facilities provided.             The concept of serviced apartment, which is a well-furnished and aesthetically designed accommodation with a small kitchen and AC rooms, housekeeping staff and a wifi connection, came to India in 2004. Many apartments in Kormangala were built when HAL International airport was nearby.             However, shifting of the airport towards north in 2008 has not hit the turnover in any way, as the area started becoming a hub for IT companies. Live-inn service apartment in 6th block was started mainly because the airport was nearby. However, recession gave them a bigger loss than the shift.             "It is a prime location. Within a radius of 5 kms, there are malls and places to hangout for tourists, hospitals for foreign patients and most importantly a lot of IT companies," said Prabhu A, proprietor, Live-inn. Their current turnover per month is Rs 7-8 lakhs today.             "However, to handle competition, we need to constantly concentrate on marketing," he added. Chand Basha, a tourist who stayed there recently said, "It is close by to almost all good places of the city, Forum mall, Oasis mall, coffee shops and good restaurants."                Their charges for a 2 bedroom apartment is Rs3,500 per day and 3 bed room apartments is Rs5,000 per day, both custom designed with AC rooms, hall and fully-equipped Kitchen.             Post downturn, companies have been more cost conscious and as a result of which serviced apartments have started gaining popularity as they are perceived to be more economical as compared to five-star hotels.        High rent=High profits        This has resulted in the increased occupancies due to which a number of small operators have started developing their own serviced apartments, particularly in Koramangala. They pay a huge rent, around Rs80,000 per month, but manage a profit of 70 per cent.             "We pay a rent of Rs70,000 and get around Rs2.5 lakhs. So, on an average our profit is 75 per cent now, which is not bad, given the intense competition in the area," said George Issac, proprietor, Terrance Holidays. These small players placed mainly in Koramangala also get repeat customers mainly because of the demand in the area.             "We now get an occupancy of 80 per cent, with many promising to come back. During wedding season, it is more," said Ehasan Ahmed, Abscissa Facilities Management, Ejipura. They started two years back with one more branch in Indiranagar.             Leading property developers like Brigade Group are also happy with the way service apartment industry is performing. Brigade group, that has over 100 residential, commercial, retail and hospitality projects, covering over 20 million sq ft of developable area, has a service apartment in third block is managed by Accor group.             "In the last three years, we have had loyal patronage. We have been consistently performing well," said Vineet Verma, CEO, Brigade hospitality. They have 80 per cent occupancy. The rates the builders offer is around Rs2,000 per sq feet for serviced apartments.             According to The Global Serviced Apartments Industry Report 2011-12 , with room supply growing at 15 per cent a year, India is one of the few global serviced apartment markets where supply is expected to exceed demand in major Indian cities in 2012 to 2013.             If the overall figures are anything to go by, Koramangala's serviced apartments are sure to go a long way, albeit with the need to tackle competition in a better way.        Adopting this business        The flourishing yet interesting business has given way to many quitting their nine to five job and taking this up as fulltime profession. Rita Deewan for instance gave up her teaching career in 2004 when she heard of the concept of serviced apartments. She had an apartment in Raheja Residency and decided to give it a shot by furnishing her own apartment and get going.             Today she says, "We offer a bouquet of serviced apartments in Bangalore,Pune,Chennai and hyderabad. Properties out of Bangalore are our tie ups with our partners who have been handpicked by us after visiting various properties and meeting the owners."               Called as Alcove service apartments, they have a steady clientele with 60 per cent of them repeating their visits. Word of mouth,advertising and networking worked best for the business. "We tried advertising on all possible free listings on web while I was getting my apartment ready.             I started visiting other service apartments in and around koramangala and indiranagar to get an idea of the way people run the service apartments. I got my first booking for a month from a NRI from USA and then there was no looking back," she says.             Making quick bucks was not her priority and that is how they sailed through recession. "We wanted to expand to few more apartments time to time to keep up with the demand, but profit was not the only priority. I kept adding apartments in my inventory in my apartment complex and had 8 apartments by 2006 inspite of not being aggressive in expansion. Journey has been slowly moving up the ladder without feeling the pangs of recession," she says.             They mostly get long term stays but there has been a demand for room basis bookings for corporates and individual travellers too.             "People think the business is very lucrative and anyone having a flat or bungalow can start it and run it with profit, but it is not as rosy as it looks. Its lots of commitment and personal involvement that is required to carry on in this business," she sums it up.    

