URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/rss-ropes-in-professionals-from-top-business-schools-to-lure-youth/articleshow/53778694.cms

Title : RSS ropes in professionals from top business schools to lure youth - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : World Bank,Swachh Bharat,Sewa Bharti,RSS,Max Life Insurance,English,business schools

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 01.44 AM IST

Document ID : 120

Content:
  NEW DELHI: A team of 15 young professionals drawn from reputed business schools and engineering colleges is helping the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh adopt a "data-driven, analytical approach" aimed at enhancing its acceptability.     The team, functioning under the Sangh's social welfare wing, Sewa Bharti, has analysed how the organisation "known for senior men talking hard-core Hindutva" can be made more popular among a wider cross-section of society, people involved in the exercise said.     A number of initiatives have ensued under the "Six Sigma approach of sanskriti (culture), sanskar (values), swabhiman (pride), swawlamban (self-help), sewa (service) and satya (truth)," they said. The professionals were inducted as part-time members over the past few months.     The measures rolled out so far include reaching out to college students to draw them to charitable work. "The idea is to acquaint young Indians with the concept of nation-building by encouraging them to spend time with underprivileged sections of society," said B Sidharth, a Faculty of Management Studies graduate who is part of the 15-member team.     "It could well be loosely based on 'Teach for India' model, but it is not corporate. We want young people to understand their responsibilities towards the nation. We are also going and talking to them in colleges and offering them a counternarrative of 'an idea of India' instead of the one they have been fed with all these years," Sidharth said.     Besides, last month Sewa Bharti organised a job fair for students studying at its 30 schools and colleges. About 40 companies including SpiceJet and Max Life Insurance conducted interviews and hired about 400 students, mostly as ground staff.     Sewa Bharti sought feedback from the participating companies, based on which it has introduced two changes in its working.     The two changes include: a set of 2,000 "must know" English words that every household part of its "sewa basti (slums)" programmes needs to know, and "a daily 10-minute" spoken English module that has been made compulsory in the schools, mostly vernacular medium, that it runs.     "The feedback we received mainly said corporates preferred candidates who know basic English. We are looking at areas of our community driven programmes that need improvement and are fixing them," said Sidharth.     More such steps are likely to be approved at the ongoing meeting of Sewa Bharti in Gwalior, where senior Sangh members are in attendance. Senior Sangh leaders told ET it is time the organisation had parallel membership options apart from the traditional "come to any shakha and get enrolled method".     The new initiatives mainly involve using "disciplined, data-driven approach and methodology, and brainstorming sessions analysing case studies", according to the people cited earlier.    FOCUS ON SWACHH BHARAT   After an analysis of World Bank studies on expenditure on sanitation and other globally acclaimed research papers, the 15-member team has suggested that Sewa Bharti help boost Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Swachh Bharat cleanliness drive and address the issue of young street children taking to crime.     Sewa Bharti has now come up with an approach to pick volunteers in every basti to head sanitation drives in their respective areas and has provided its offices across the country with an online register each to maintain details of checks, audits and work done. Brochures and campaign material can be later brought out when this data is ready, the members said.     The organisation is urging colleges to have a "sewa club" on every campus. "The idea is to get the students initiated in activities of social welfare. The point is not to impose any ideology on them. They can join any organisation they want after the initial few months," Sidharth said.     A senior member of the Sangh said the organisation is also looking at the method of online registry for some of its programmes. "Even the decision on new uniform was taken after collecting suggestions from several young people," he said, requesting not to be identified.  

