URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//positive-ecosystem-helps-bootstrapped-startups-grow/articleshow/52542736.cms

Title : Positive ecosystem helps bootstrapped startups grow - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Startups,Funding,entrepreneurs,ecosystem,Bootstrap,Bengaluru,Anil Kumar

Date :  Jun 01, 2016, 10.42 PM IST

Document ID : 407

Content:
 By Medha Gupta    KORAMANGALA: Going bootstrapped is the new trend these days. There is an increase in number of entrepreneurs who prefer to found and build a company from personal finances or from the operating revenues of the new company. There are players who feel bootstrapped startups are generally very innovative in carrying various business functions in limited resources. Funding many a time distracts entrepreneurs to do too many things, media limelight etc which can bring down focus on core business.     The perception that a bootstrapped startup struggles to break even and turn profitable has been completely shattered by the businessmen. Staying bootstrapped takes a lot of grit, patience and faith in the product. Sharing the difficulties and struggles of going bootstrapped, Koramangala- based startup giftxox's co-founder Sumit Khandelwal, says, "Startups are a roller-coaster ride. Every day there is a new challenge. However, some of the key challenges we have faced are, getting the right team, getting the initial set of customers and managing our cash flows in a bootstrapped mode." Giftxoxo is into business of gifting experiences, which stay with you all your life.     While there are startups who start and work with the help of outside support in terms of investments or funding. There are startups like Giftxoxo, Affimity, Redseer Consulting, Affimity, Modspace etc who took the other way and are a well-established startup today.     Sumit says, "There are ways to handle these challenges, if it's a crowded space and funding is the only way for one to grow its best to take a pivot and find another space to work. In rest of the cases when you have a good business model and you are focusing on building a strong fundamental business, keep focusing on product, customer and consistent growth. The funding is not the reason for one to grow, it's an enabler and each of them may get at different periods. This will easily help one to navigate the tough times without funding."     He adds, "Its not as challenging as one thinks. I think funding is a frame of mind and the more one has it helps you grow faster, hire best talent and enjoy some luxury in experimenting. With less funding or being bootstrapped, one tends to work hard on hiring, getting best of the talent, find avenues to do barter for marketing and get various routes to grow. Cash is king so its always a balancing act which is done when planning spends".     Major Prashant Rai, CEO and Founder, Onetimejobs says, "The biggest challenge that we've faced has been managing growth without wasting resources. Every organization is unique and each will have its own way of doing things. Planning for financial stability is certainly no different, we have to match our growth with business generation so that we can compete and look for External funds for further growth".     Onetimejobs is a home service startup based out of Bengaluru. Koramangala being a startup hub has seen many bootstrapped startups, Sumit Khandelwal from Giftxoxo says, "Unlike other places in Bengaluru, Koramangla is in the heart of the city and provides a holistic ecosystem in terms of startups, food, transportation etc. It is easily connected to all places and very accessible at any time. It's also very vibrant place with a very good ecosystem around business.     Koramangala has been one of our best markets. It is in the top 10 territories in India and is quite good for startups to grow. The ecosystem is also cordial to help grow the business. Good talent is easily available and this helps even better. The customers are ready to experiment and reward new products."     Sumit thinks that the best of an entrepreneur comes out when resources are limited and then he develops innovative solutions to maintain the growth momentum. "Having said this, the investment state in India is good and each of us should leverage that and use it to grow faster" he added.     "Koramangala showcases the diverse migrant population of youth of our country, a majority of who have come to the city to either work or start a new business. Koramangala is like a testing ground for startups", says Rai.     "Interaction with other folks in an ecosystem like Koramangla helps in understanding the challenges and solutions they have developed. The infrastructure, office, and other facilities also comes up according to startup need particularly in this area, says Anil Kumar, CEO and Founder of RedSeer Consulting.     RedSeer Consulting was started at the peak of 2009 recession when all the corporates had cut down their consulting budget to zero. "One of the major challenges faced during their initial days were selling consulting without a team and brand", recalls Kumar. He says going bootstrapped is certainly challenging but it gives you greater independence and also brings business back to the basics.     While Praveen Mittal, co-founder of Affimity is of the view that India always had bootstrapped startups as funding at an early stage was very difficult. Now a bootstrapping startup can take more risk knowing that funding will not be a problem once it has something concrete to show. "I expect many more new Indian startups to focus on building new technologies or platforms that may have longer lead time before becoming profitable but have the potential to transform their domains", he added.  

