URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/vistara-to-rejig-loyalty-scheme-to-woo-more-corporate-travellers/articleshow/53779174.cms

Title : Vistara to rejig loyalty scheme to woo more corporate travellers - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vistara,Travellers,Tata Sons,Singapore Airlines,loyalty scheme,India Inc,corporate

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 03.40 AM IST

Document ID : 14

Content:
  MUMBAI: Vistara, the joint venture carrier between Tata Sons and Singapore Airlines, is planning to rejig its loyalty programme to woo more corporate travellers.     People aware of the airline's plans said it is introducing a new level of benefits on its loyalty programme called 'Club Vistara', making earning and burning of miles easier, and considering an invitation-only card for the 'who's who' of India Inc. The new loyalty programme is likely to be launched in September.     Vistara, which currently has the silver and gold cards on its loyalty programme, will also add a platinum card with more benefits, including increased baggage allowance and no rescheduling fees, one of the persons cited earlier said, requesting not to be named.     Also, while currently a passenger can get upgrades only on the basis of points accrued through miles, under 'Club Vistara' upgrades can also be done on the basis of number of flights taken.     Vistara is also considering an 'invitation-only' card which will be given for free to the so-called 'who's who' of the country, the same person said. "That will give the user facilities such as 'meet and assist' from airport staff, more upgrades, etc." he said.     The plans are a sign of growing competition for the corporate traveller. Recently, Jet refurbished its pricing tool on the website, introducing additional number of buckets, but linking incentives such as lounge access, cancelation and upgrade to higher classes to fare buckets. That has got a mixed response, with many frequent flyers criticising it on social media.     As lines between full-service and low-fare carriers blur with every discounted ticket on offer, the former are having to go the extra mile to get more business class passengers.     Low-fare carriers such as Indi-Go have in the last one year made a dent in the corporate traveller base of full-service carriers. Corporate travellers are now more price sensitive and go for higher on-time performance, favourable slots and robust network over just upgrades and premium services.     Vistara is also planning a new brand campaign, the person in the know said. He didn't elaborate.  

