URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/six-triggers-that-changed-your-market-while-you-were-sleeping/articleshow/53165618.cms

Title : Six triggers that changed your market while you were sleeping - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,Wealth,US,News,markets,Market,India,ICRA,Food,europe

Date :  Jul 12, 2016, 07.18 AM IST

Document ID : 932

Content:
 Good morning, dear reader!    It looks like a bright day ahead after Monday's big rally in stocks. Dalal Street is in for some more treat, as US stock markets hit all-time highs in overnight trade.     Meanwhile, monsoon rains have covered the entire country. Some pain, if any, could come from Europe, where the banking space is seeing some trouble.     These and more in today's digest of news, views and cues that changed your market while you were sleeping.    S&P500; hits all-time high:  It took a while to come, but it has come. TheS&P500;, the bellwether of US stock markets, managed to see a fresh all-time closing high at 2,137 last night, buoyed by the stupendous jump in employment numbers in June. The post-Brexit rally has already allowed the index to restore $1.4 trillion worth of investor wealth. More importantly, for the US stock market, they don't have to look over their shoulder for a rate hike from the Fed, which will take some more time now to materialise. Nifty futures on Singapore Stock Exchange looked happy about it this morning.    Pokemons are the best, ask Nintendo:  Remember them? The cute little monsters who used to charm you with their fighting techniques are now making money for Nintendo. The Japanese game-maker's latest creation, PokemonGo, has added $7.5 billion to Nintendo's market value in just two days' trade. The company's shares have rallied a whopping 36 per cent since Thursday.    Guess who the next RBI Governor is:  Some sources in the North Block suggest it could be Prime Minister Narendra Modi's current economic adviser Arvind Panagriya. Panagriya comes with loads of intellectual integrity and a stature in the world of economics. His book  India: The Emerging Giant  is considered to be a definitive research on Indian economics. But don't get ahead of yourself. According to the PMO, the next governor for the central bank will be named byJuly 18.    Monsoon spreads its wings:  After making a teasing entry, monsoon is finally taking flight. The rains are set to cover the entirety country within the next 48 hours, Met officials said. At last count, the rain surplus stood at 1 per cent.    ...and that has heightened hopes of a rate cut:  Yes, good monsoon means good news on the inflation front. Icra believes the fear of an uptick in food inflation are likely to take a back seat in the inflation data scheduled to be released this week, adding to the expectation of a rate cut at Raghuram Rajan's ultimate monetary policy review in August. "An improvement in rainfall could augur well for the inflation trajectory going forward," it said.    European banks are reeling under pain:  The crisis in the European banking sector in the aftermath of the Brexit vote is getting worse. Despite the ECB's efforts to provide liquidity, experts believe the crash in bank stocks, especially those belonging to Italian banks and Deutsche Bank, will hamper loan growth in the continent. By hampering bank's ability to raise capital, the stock price crash could curtail future loan growth, creating a fresh headache for Mario Draghi.   

