URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/myntra-collaborates-with-motogp-to-launch-riding-gear-collection/articleshow/53739774.cms

Title : Myntra collaborates with MotoGP to launch riding gear collection - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,Sports,roadster,riding gear,Retail,premium,premier,penetration,Myntra,MotoGP,market share,Market,India,in,Flipkart,fashion,brands,Bollywood

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 04.33 PM IST

Document ID : 731

Content:
  Flipkart-owned Myntra's leading in-house brand Roadster has collaborated with MotoGP to launch a premium riding gear collection. MotoGP is the premier motorcycle racing world championship.     Roadster, which contributes to 7% of Myntra's total revenue, has introduced jackets, denims and shirts at a premium price range of about Rs 10,000 and Rs 4000 respectively. This is the first for the brand whose average maximum retail price or MRP has been Rs 1200.     "We are crafting a space to sell high MRP range. The opportunity is huge as the premium motorcycle industry in India is set to grow at a CAGR of 30% during 2014-2019," said Gunjan Soni, Chief Marketing Officer of Myntra. "We will come up with more outdoor collections under the brand and make more tie ups at a premium price range," she added.     The company which recently acquired its closest competitor Jabong, has 11 private label brands which contribute to 20-25% of total gross merchandise value. Post the acquisition, the Flipkart group - Flipkart, Myntra and jabong - hold about 70% of the country's online fashion market share.     "The mushrooming number of motorcycling festivals and biker's clubs in India is a testament to the growing interest of biking in India. However, we find the motorcycling apparel segment a largely underserved market in the country," said Pau Serracanta, Managing Director, Commercial Area, at Dorna Sports. "By collaborating with India's favorite outdoor apparel brand-Roadster, we look forward to present the bikers of the country with a range of biking apparels which will take charge of both their safety and style quotient," he added.     Myntra has been betting big on Roadster and other private label brands to help it turn profitable in the coming fiscal year as they pull in high margins. Recently, the company acquired 51% stake of its second best selling in-house brand, HRX which is co-owned by Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan.     According to a recent Morgan Stanley report, the fashion/apparel category is critical for general merchandise and vertical specific companies as it has better margins. In India, online penetration in apparel/fashion was 4.5% in 2014 and is estimated to touch 30.3% by 2020, making it a $37.8 billion category.  

