URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/when-it-comes-to-investing-average-can-turn-out-to-be-good-too/articleshow/53682226.cms

Title : When it comes to investing, average can turn out to be good too - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : saving,returns,Plan,ipos,investors,average

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 357

Content:
  Nothing but the best will do. When it comes to our expectations from others, that is pretty much our benchmark. And if we happen to be the ones who have written the cheque, we feel quite entitled to the best that is out there. Many of our troubles as investors begin with this simplistic benchmark that we have in our head.     When we set out to find where we should invest our money, we always ask if the investment will do well. It is a simple question and a reasonable one too. The trouble though, is that everyone else also knows that this is what we want to know, and they simply tell us what we want to hear. Look at the pictures of new properties being sold for your attention. They carry the pictures of the perfect home, large, beautifully furnished and green all around. When was the last time you saw a picture of a flat that showed its actual size, realistically? Some audacious advertisements will tell you that they are completely sold out—wonder why they had to advertise that on the front page.     The IPOs sold to us are all potential multibaggers; the bonds that come into the market are the best post-tax; the gold saving plan of every jeweller in town is the best way to invest; and the mutual fund which came on top of the list is the best one to buy into. Everyone is flaunting their ranking and rating. Just as best behaviour is reserved for first dates and the best spouse in the whole world is the one we met on our honeymoon. Reality stings, sooner than later.     Unless we are super lucky, we are likely to have experiences that ground us from this lofty thinking that the best is just there for us to pick up. We realise that we have been conned, and we figure that the stock that we thought would be a star turned out to be dud; or the fixed deposit scheme we enthusiastically bought was a fraud; or the mutual fund we bought slipped to the end of the ranking table; or the flat we booked has been eternally under construction. How do we cope with this reality?     We either turn cynical, refusing to have anything to do with what went wrong for us, or we seek safety nets. We do not naturally see such situations to be those that require us to do things differently. It is not easy to take the blame upon ourselves. We usually blame the other for not living up to its promise, and for not delivering to us the best deal according to the benchmark that we had in mind. We fail to see that the promise was tinted since we wanted it so badly.     Because of this approach to investing, investors routinely ask for the best investment with the least amount of risk involved. They think that it is reasonable to ask if the investment is safe, and whether it is the best, in the same breath. Investors are ill prepared for appropriate action when they have made a bad choice. They hope for things to turn around, and they do not like to sell what they have bought at a loss.     They also learn to cope with their decisions. What they own becomes precious to them, and they defend their decision to purchase it quite vehemently. Ask the owner of the top floor apartment about the heat of the sun, he will tell you that his home is the best in the building as it gets plenty of light and air. Ask the owner of the flat on the first floor in the same building about the dark and stuffy interiors, and he will tell you how cool it is in summer. We all learn to find attachment and affinity for what we own.     We can do better than this. We can begin by recognising that 'best' is not a realistic target. It is a free world in which millions of opportunities are routinely sought by people. It is unrealistic to expect all of them to succeed. There is really no way of knowing in advance about which combination of factors will propel what to the top. Selective success stories have limited practical value and do not tell us what we can do today. We talk about the past from the comfort of the present, where we can see how things actually unfolded.     It is easy to look at a winning stock, house, or business today and speak nostalgically about how cheap it once was. What is missing in this inspiring story is that it was cheap because not many thought it could become a winner. A brave lucky and handful decided to but anyway, and the rest only bought it in their fantasies. Each success seems to have its own route. If a formula cannot be applied again and again to get the same result, what use is it?     The heartening thing to know is that we can shoot for the average. It does not have the ring of aspiration that the 'best' brings, but it is realistic. When we make an investment decision, we can choose diversification as our core strategy, based on this understanding. We cannot buy a dozen houses, study a dozen courses or date a dozen people before we make up our mind, but we can surely buy a dozen stocks, funds or bonds.     If we accept that we can choose with all the care we can muster, but still be wrong, we will be willing to review. We can either do it ourselves, as we should with bonds and stocks, or we can get a portfolio manager to do it for us, as it is the case with a mutual fund or a managed portfolio. We can check if the assumptions are working and make corrections if things do not go as expected. Technically, we can manage the risks that we so fear, if we do these two things.     What stops us then? We refuse to accept that the average return is a good number. We insist, instead, that there should be tricks to do better and we should get there. We fail to give up on getting lucky with our choices. We hear stories and believe that the best is within reach. We find holding a diversified portfolio that is periodically reviewed and held for the long-term to be a boring strategy not worth pursuing. As long as we keep craving for the best over the average, sharp scamsters keep lurking for prey.     (   Uma Shashikant   , Chairperson, Centre for Investment Education and Learning)  

