URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/handset-makers-like-karbonn-lg-and-others-get-ready-with-apps-and-panic-button-for-women-safety/articleshow/53388852.cms

Title : Handset makers like Karbonn, LG and others get ready with apps and panic button for women safety - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Women safety,panic button,LG,Karbonn,Apps

Date :  Jul 26, 2016, 03.11 AM IST

Document ID : 253

Content:
  NEW DELHI: App makers are actively discussing integrating their products designed to ensure women's safety into handsets in the wake of the government notification to install panic buttons in all mobile devices from January 2017.     Some of the well-known personal safety apps, including VithU, Woman Safety Shield, I Feel Safe, Nirbhaya: Be Fearless, I'm Shakti and Secure Her, are compatible with Android OS-based smartphones.     These apps come at a very negligible or zero cost to handset vendors, and can be leveraged with existing hardware modules. Some like handset vendor Karbonn are developing their own women's safety app, while Korean major LG has already unveiled a phone with a panic button.     "We are in advanced talks with few device makers to install the 'I Feel Safe' with a panic button option with some of the device vendors," said Bhawna Kumari, business head at MSAI, adding that the company is running field trials. MSAI provides software solutions and IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) numbers to mobile device makers.     Kumari, however, refused to disclose the names of vendors incorporating such an app, but added that the new bundled devices are likely to hit retail store shelves starting August.     The 'I Feel Safe' app will be available in some of the mobile phone models across 2G, 3G and 4G technologies being launched in the Indian market shortly. Device makers, according to the executive, are eager to grab the market by demonstrating a user-friendly safety app with the panic button option as a unique business proposition.       As they prepare inventory for the upcoming festival season including the Diwali line-up, they are strategically adopting women safety apps, though most were tightlipped about their plans.     Samsung, Lenovo, HTC and Intex did not respond to ET's queries while Micromax, Lava and Xiaomi said they will be adhering to the government mandate to install panic buttons on new handsets.     Karbonn said it is developing an in-house app, which is expected to be pre-installed in some of the new smartphones it rolls out to differentiate them from competitors. "We would be making safety apps available on Karbonn's app store and Android Play Store for easy download by existing customers," a spokesperson said.     Additionally, the device maker will also be pushing safety feature updates over FOTA (firmware over-the-air) to all Karbonn customers. The devices and updates would be launched over the next few months, the company added.     New entrant Zopo, a Chinese handset brand, is also working on to incorporate the panic feature. "Women safety is critical and we are open to include a third-party app, but localisation is a problem on which we are working to give users a better experience," said Charles Bird, global brand manager at Zopo.     South Korea's LG has already unveiled a software-driven panic button feature in its newest X Screen smartphone and will continue to adopt the feature, developed, inhouse, in all upcoming smartphones in India.  

