URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/foreign-trade/maharashtra-seeks-chinese-investment-for-states-growth/articleshow/53773873.cms

Title : Maharashtra seeks Chinese investment for state's growth - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Narendra Modi,Manufacturers,Maharashtra,chinese

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 07.48 PM IST

Document ID : 702

Content:
  MUMBAI: Maharashtra today exhorted Chinese companies to invest in sectors, including infrastructure, to help accelerate economic growth of the state and the country as well.     "On behalf of Maharashtra Government, I invite Chinese companies to invest and intensify co-operation. They should look at Maharashtra state as a destination which will increase our bi-lateral trade between India-China as recommended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Maharashtra Industry Minister Subhash Desai said.     The Minister further said that the Indian manufacturers should follow the Chinese methods of manufacturing products and services of international qualities at an affordable price.     Such expertise will not only lift the quality of the Indian products and services but will also give them an edge in to international market, he told reporters after inaugurating 'China Guangxi Products Exhibition (India) 2016' here.     China's knowledge in areas like water and waste management, alongwith its experienced urban planners and administrators will provide a necessary push to the growth of Maharashtra and India, he added.     Ma Jixian, Deputy Director General of Commerce of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, said so far Guangxi has set up seven ventures in India. We see great trade opportunities between India and China.     Desai urged Chinese trades and industry to popularise 'Make in India' tag into China, just like the popular 'Made in China' tag in India.     India needs USD 1 trillion investment in infrastructure and China's expertise and investment in this sector will be continuously sought after, he added.     The Department of Commerce of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China is hosting three-day 2016 CGPE exhibition. It has been supported by the China Embassy and Consulate Offices in India, Mumbai Chinese Enterprise Association (MCEA), Indian Merchants' Chamber (IMC) and India-China Chamber of Commerce & Industry (ICCCI).     This is the first time for the Government of Guangxi is independently hosting the exhibition to showcase its products and services. Around 58 Guangxi enterprises will exhibit in this event, with 65 booths and 2,700 square meters of (the exhibition) area.     The exhibitors' business cover the field of light industrial products, arts and crafts, foodstuffs and native produce, medicine and health care, machinery and electronics, metals, minerals and chemicals, textile and clothes.  

