URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/plan/are-you-making-the-right-financial-moves/articleshow/53571283.cms

Title : Are you making the right financial moves? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SIP,rupee cost averaging,ET Wealth,Credit card,compounding

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 378

Content:
  Your path to prosperity will be smooth if you take prudent steps at the right time. The wrong decisions will lead to a setback.     This traditional snakes and ladders game devised by Sanket Dhanorkar shows where different moves will take you.    Prudent steps and impact  Step 1:  Start SIP in equity fund with first salary    Impact: Gain from power of compounding    Step 2:  Set up emergency fund worth six months expenses    Impact: Take care of financial emergency without borrowing    Step 3:  Enrol for part-time certificate course    Impact: Boost career prospects due to improved skills.    Step 4:  Increse SIP amount each year    Impact: Increased contribution means bigger corpus    Step 5:  Review and rebalance portfolio    Impact: Get rid of laggards and cut risk in portfolio    Step 6:  Discuss money matters with spouse towards goals    Impact: Ensure that family is not in dark if you are gone    Step 7:  Use windfall to prepay home loan    Impact: Earlier you pay off debt, better it is for you    Wrong decisions and setbacks  1.  Buy traditional policy with friend's insistence    Setback: Forced to continue low yield plan till maturity    2.  Withdraw from retirement savings    Setback: Lose the power of compounding    3.  Stop SIP's when market turns weak    Setback: Lose out when markets resume upward journey    4.  Respond to offer of easy money    Setback: Fraudsters cheat you of your money    5.  Forget to pay term plan premium    Setback:Policy lapses; have to purchase afresh    6.  Roll over credit card dues    Setback: Pay high interest of 30-36% on the rollover amount    7.  Do not buy health cover for yourself    Setback: Sudden illness drains your savings     For graphical representation click  here        Tips to avoid the snakes (setbacks)   1.  Traditional insurance policies suffer from the twin problems of poor returns and low insurance coverage. Do not buy only to save tax or to oblige a persistent salesman.    2.  Withdrawing from retirement savings robs the nest egg of the power of compounding. Top up group health cover or buy separate cover so that you don't dip into your savings in an emergency.    3.  Stopping SIPS when the market is down defeats the very idea of systematic investing and rupee cost averaging. Don't stop buying when prices have crashed.    4.  Fraudsters lure victims with promises of easy money. Ignore emails from deposed dictators and dying widows who want to share their wealth with you.    5.  Pay off entire outstanding balance on credit card by due date. Rolling over balance attracts steep interest charges that keep accumulating.    How to find the ladders (gains)   1.  Putting away small sums of money from an early age helps you accumulate a big corpus for your goals with a much smaller outlay than if you start investing later.    2.  An emergency fund helps you tide over a temporary money crunch when faced with a job loss or illness. Ideal approach is to invest in a liquid fund.    3.  Investing in yourself by upgrading your skill-set is your bet bet to fast track your career and enhance your income profile quickly.    4.  Stepping up SIP contribution in line with jump in income will help you reach goal on time. Direct any windfall income towards prepaying your home loan to reduce costs.    5.  Monitor your investment portfolio regularly and rebalance the asset mix whenever required. This helps weed out non-performers on time and maintain risk profile.  

