URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/indias-home-to-accentures-37-staff-rekha-m-menon-cmd-accenture-india/articleshow/53611674.cms

Title : India's home to Accenture's 37% staff: Rekha M Menon, CMD, Accenture India - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Rekha,Digital,advertising,Accenture Interactive,Accenture

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 11.07 AM IST

Document ID : 672

Content:
  BENGALURU: In the 2015 fiscal, Accenture's digital revenue grew 35% to become a $7-billion business. It has invested $2.5 billion in 38 acquisitions in the last three years -70% of that in just the last fiscal.In an interview,  Rekha M Menon, CMD of Accenture  in India, talks about the $32-billion company's firstmover advantage in digital and India's crucial role in it. Excerpts:    Digital-related services contributed 40% to your revenues last quarter. That's a big number in a short period...   We're very focused on what we call "rotating to the new", and the "new" for us is digital, cloud and security . We caught on to this as our strategy years ago, and started focusing on it early. We're working with our clients on it, and changing internally what we do, training our people on that and working with startups on that.    Going by comparative results, Accenture seems to have done the best job in moving to digital...   The strategy is showing excellent results. Where we couldn't build, we bought the capabilities. Digital marketing and security capabilities are great examples of this. It's interesting to see how we've become a digital design agency as well. One of our very successful acquisitions was that of Fjord -a pure creative, design agency . We realized that we're also moving to sell to the chief marketing officer, also that we're now required to have design capability in addition to all our tech, consulting and strategy capabilities. We recently won L'Oreal, the cosmetics products company -where we competed with their incumbent advertising agency. This was because we were offering the full range of services -creative, technology , analytics, and Accenture Interactive.The Ad Age Report 2016 ranked Accenture Interactive as the world's largest and fastest-growing digital agency network.    A quarter, may be a third, of your work force is in India. How has the Indian operations grown in the past few years?   We're more than 1,40,000 in India, and we're 3,75,000 employees across the world. But the story for us is not headcount any more. It was important in the years past -remember, we came into the game later in India, all our competitors were already here then. And we were at that ti me written off, saying we could never crack it. But we've cracked it. The important story for us now is that India is the powerhouse in terms of what we're providing for our clients globally. All the top 100 clients for Accenture globally are served out of India. The fact that we're doing analytics, security and have a vibrant digital practice out of India -that's the story.    Does it worry you that Accenture is putting all eggs in one (India) basket?   India continues to be a huge talent hub. Numbers is one part of the game, but it's about the quality of talent, the availability of skill sets and the hunger to learn new things. Every time a new technology has come in, Indians have been at the forefront of learning it. I can see India overall and for Accenture continue as a talent hub for the future, I don't see this changing immediately.  

