URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/today-women-are-decision-makers-and-breadwinners-says-alexandra-matine/articleshow/53722338.cms

Title : Today women are decision-makers and breadwinners, says Alexandra Matine - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.19 AM IST

Document ID : 288

Content:
Earlier this year Alexandra Matine, senior strategist, 72andSunny Amsterdam, wrote a piece for a major daily in the UK titled 'The next step in marketing to women is to stop marketing to women'. Naturally, we were intrigued. So, BE's Delshad Irani caught up with Matine to get her thoughts on the degenerative state of fempowertising and not-marketing to women.  Marketing to the 21st century woman Women drive 70-80% of all consumer purchasing, through a combination of their buying power and influence. That's something every marketer knows and wants to tap into. And they need to figure out how to appeal to modern women instead of clinging to an outdated 50s stereotype of the homemaker or stay-at-home mom. Women's current role in society is more empowered - they are decision makers and breadwinners - and want to be acknowledged as such. Pink is not a strategy.  Campaigns that got it right 'Da da ding' (Nike) because it's about being an athlete, not a woman that does sport. Showing women that are competitive, strong, fierce and determined in a culture that is traditionally patriarchal feels light-years ahead. Thinx because after decades of brands inventing tampons and maxi pads that are easy to hide and silent to open, it's time we break the taboo around periods. Another one I want to salute, even though it's not a marketing campaign, is the decision from the mayor of London Sadiq Khan to ban body-shaming ads on London's buses and underground trains. It's a very strong message to put out there, to say "it's not ok and I won't perpetuate this".  Ad tropes and follies The first is believing that women and men's brain are wired differently. Thinking that gender influences what you like, buy and believe is the first assumption we marketers need to tackle. First, it's scientifically wrong. Second, putting people in boxes has never led to any progressive thought. You can only stay fresh and relevant if you start from a gender neutral brief and stick to a gender neutral execution. If you go gender-specific, it's highly likely nothing provocative or refreshing will come out.  'The next step in marketing to women is to stop marketing to women' I was fed up of reading articles on "how to market to women", "15 things to know about the female consumer". As if gender was the most significant determinant. I don't think gender should come into play unless it's for a product that is exclusively linked to your gender. If it's not for a bra or tampons or condoms, then why is gender part of the equation? Why would it matter if you're male or female?  

