URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/eighteen-stocks-in-focus-on-thursday-21-july-2016/articleshow/53312113.cms

Title : Eighteen stocks in focus on Thursday, 21 July 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro,Taparia,SKS Microfinance,plastiblends,lakshmi vilas,ITC,indian oil,HPCL,Hindustan Zinc Ltd,Hindustan Zinc,Hindustan Petroleum,Dewan Housing,Dabur India,Coal India,Ambuja Cements Ltd,Ambuja Cements,Acc ltd,ACC

Date :  Jul 21, 2016, 08.05 AM IST

Document ID : 918

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Thursday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The Nifty50 index opened flattish but managed to hold above its opening levels and headed towards 8570 zones. It has given a highest daily closing in last eleven months and set to start next move after the recent consolidation of last six trading sessions," Chandan Taparia, Derivatives Analyst - Equity Research, Anand Rathi Financial Services told ETMarkets.com.     "Now it has to hold above 8550 zones to witness an up move towards 8650-8700 zones while on the downside 8480 then 8445 are likely to act as a major support levels," he added.    Here is a list of top eighteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   ITC:  The FMCG major is expected to report 9.9 per cent YoY growth in net profit for the quarter ended June 30 to Rs 2,490 crore compared to Rs 2,265 crore reported in the year-ago period, said the ET Now poll.   Infosys:  India's second largest software exporter Infosys has witnessed another high-level exit, as global immigration head Vasudeva Nayak put in his papers on Wednesday, marking at least the third top-rung departure after company veterans Samson David and Anup Uppadhayay also quit in quick succession over the past week.   Ashok Leyland:  The company is expected to report 24 per cent year-on-year (YoY) growth in net profit to Rs 197 crore for the quarter ended June 30, compared to Rs 159.30 crore reported in the year-ago period, said the ET Now poll.    ABB India:  The company is expected to report 30 per cent YoY growth for the quarter ended June 30 to Rs 75 crore compared to Rs 57.50 crore reported in the year-ago period, said the ET Now Poll.    Wipro:  India's third largest software exporter Wipro bought back shares worth Rs. 1963 crore from two trusts owned by the company's billionaire chairman Azim H Premji, as part of the company's share repurchase program earlier in June, according to a regulatory filing.    L&T; Infotech:  L&T; Infotech which recently concluded its Rs 1,243-crore IPO, will make its stock market debut on Thursday. L&T; Infotech, which recently concluded its Rs 1,243-crore IPO, will make its stock market debut.    Bharat Financial:  SKS Microfinance renamed itself as Bharat Financial inclusion in the month of June is expected to report 107 per cent YoY growth in net profit to Rs 127 crore for the quarter ended June, compared to Rs 61 crore reported in the year-ago period, said an ET Now Poll.    HPCL:  State-run Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd (HPCL) will issue bonus shares or two free shares for every one held by its shareholders, the company said in an announcement to BSE Ltd on Wednesday.    Dewan Housing Finance:  Dewan Housing reported a net profit growth of 16.23 per cent aided by demand for housing loans in semi urban areas.    Lakshmi Vilas Bank:  The bank posted a rise of over 50 per cent in net profit at Rs 60.68 crore for the quarter ended June.    SKF India:  Auto component maker SKF India reported 29.89 per cent increase in net profit at Rs 60.4 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2016.    Hindustan Zinc:  Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) reported a 47 per cent decline in net profit to Rs 1037 crore during the first quarter of FY17, led by higher depreciation, and taxes and lower investment income.    ACC & Ambuja Cement:  The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday approved Ambuja Cements Ltd's planned acquisition of a 24% stake in Holcim India Pvt. Ltd, paving the way for the proposed restructuring of the holding pattern of Holcim's India units, ACC Ltd and Ambuja Cements Ltd, said a media report.    Plastiblends India Ltd:  The company reported its net profit at Rs.8.4 crore in the quarter ended June 2016 as against net profit of Rs.10.5 crore during the previous quarter ended June 2015.    Central Bank of India:  Public sector Central Bank of India will raise Rs 1,297 crore by issuing preference shares to the government.     Dabur India: Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) company Dabur India on Wednesday announced its entry into the fizzy drinks market with the launch of Real VOLO -- a range of fruit juice-based aerated drinks, said a media report.    Neyveli Lignite:  The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given its approval for installation of Ghatampur Thermal Power Project (GTPC) of 1980 MW (3 X 660 MW) capacity through a Joint Venture Company named Neyveli Uttar Pradesh Power Limited (NUPPL).    IOC:  State-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Indian Oil Corp (IOC) are at loggerheads over a suggestion to induct a private company into a proposed joint venture to set up fuel supply infrastructure at AAI-run airports.    Coal India:  Coal India is banking on hefty dividend from its subsidiaries to replenish its cash reserves that would decline to Rs 690 crore after it spends Rs 3,650 crore to finance its recently announced share buyback.      

