URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/money/valuation-crunches-dont-have-to-be-e-commerce-industrys-poison-pill/articleshow/53766099.cms

Title : Valuation crunches don't have to be e-commerce industry's poison pill - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Uber,JD.com,Jabong,gross merchandise values,GMV,Foreign Direct Investment,Flipkart,Etail,eBay,Dropbox,Alibaba,Airbnb

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 09.53 AM IST

Document ID : 759

Content:
 By Vivek Singla    It is no secret that the Indian etail ecosystem is passing through a rough patch. Mounting losses, increasing competition from global majors, emerging threat of unified activism from offline retail, swinging boardroom glass doors, changing foreign direct investment (FDI) policy framework, etc, are all forcing the industry to reinvent its game plan.     The 'sell more-lose more' philosophy has given way to a 'sell-but-lose less' approach. But one of the biggest threats, which could potentially swell into an existential crisis for the sector, is the growing valuation divide between the online retailers and the investors. The pivot from a frenzied pursuit for volumes to a frantic hunt for margins has slammed brakes on the retailers' gross merchandise values (GMV), the lead indicator of transaction throughout.     Risk capital chases growth and the pullback has triggered a series of valuation markdowns beginning at the top of the industry leader board. Investors who, till recently, could not stop raving about how the advent of digitalisation is ushering in the modern era of shopping have suddenly turned their backs on the space. Pushed against the wall, the marketplaces have pulled out all possible levers like opting for debt over equity to shifting the focus to net promoter scores while stubbornly defending their equity's worth. Both camps have probably gone overboard in this stand-off.     For the investors, one of the reasons behind the sharp reversal in sentiment is the build-up in bitterness against the GMV, with many now labelling it as a pure vanity metric. But it would be worthwhile to remember that, first, GMV is not an e-commerce brainchild. Stock and commodity exchanges, trading and distribution corporations, carriers or any flowbased model, all operate on concepts similar to GMV.     Second, granted that the exclusion of discounts, returns or cancellations overstates the number, but it is not an uncommon global practice. There is a good degree of opacity around how heavyweights like Alibaba, eBay and JD.com calculate their gross transactional sums and whether or not they include any net-offs. (Amazon does not report its GMV, but it can be approximated from its quarterly results.)     Further complexity arises from the unidentified share of fake sales exploited by dubious merchants seeking more platform visibility. It could be argued that these companies supplement the GMVs with income statements, which form the basis for valuation assessment. But then, are we saying that the investors who bestowed upsized valuations on the Indian marketplaces did so without evaluating their underlying performance? Those who grumble about GMV abuse should recall that it was not the marketplaces' fault alone if some quixotic investors went overboard while shopping during their last rounds.     So, instead of being dismissive about the GMV and e-tailing at large, investors should augment the gross dollar spend with deep dive into the business performance. After all, GMV is an important component of the due diligence checklist, but not the only one. On the other hand, defiance by the marketplaces may cause them to miss the wood for the trees. Shifting the entire focus to net promoter score may not be correct as it comprises elements like customer satisfaction and experience that lend it a degree of intangibility.    Blue chips are down   Obviously, customer loyalty and superior service delivery are central to the success of any enterprise. Yet, companies all over the world are judged on financial metrics, be it revenue or profit or something else. Hence, net promoter score as a measure is not self-encompassing. And deflation in risky assets is happening everywhere, not just in India. Private blue chips like Uber, Airbnb and Dropbox have not been spared either.     As seen, most international GMV based trailing multiples fall below 1x. On the other hand, the valuations for Indian unicorns were reported to have peaked out at around 2-3x trailing GMVs sometime last year, at significant premiums to those ascribed to the larger global counterparts. There is a good likelihood that the Indian multiples would converge with the global ones once the growth ebbs, leaving scope for further derating.     For instance, Jabong was taken out for 0.5x last twelve months (LTM) revenue by Flipkart in July this year, much lower than the global LTM revenue multiples. So, try as they may, the marketplaces would not be able to sidestep the valuation recalibration. But valuation crunches do not have to be the poison pill for the industry. Take the microfinance example. The Andhra Pradesh crisis of 2011 had pushed the industry to the brink of closure. Had either the micro-finance institutions not acquiesced to valuation down rounds in the aftermath of the event or the investors stopped believing in the business, micro-finance would have become history. But sense prevailed and those who accepted the paradigm shift and realigned their focus on portfolio reconstruction and geographical expansion are reaping the rewards today.     The e-tailing stakeholders would also do better by taking a leaf from the micro-finance textbook and embrace the changed dynamics. Otherwise, their tug-of-war would continue to drain capital and talent out of the system, making the failure a self fulfilling prophecy.    The author is senior vice-president with a regional private equity firm 

