URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/yoga-cooking-drives-chumbak-founders-shubra-chadda-vivek-prabhakar-outside-of-work/articleshow/53749969.cms

Title : Yoga, cooking drives Chumbak founders Shubra Chadda & Vivek Prabhakar outside of work - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Yoga,world,Vivek Prabhakar,US,Shubra Chadda,R,Market,lifestyle,in,Food,cooking,Chumbak,China,Bengaluru

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 08.32 AM IST

Document ID : 710

Content:
  BENGALURU: Their India-themed colourful products have made a mark in the market. And much of it may have to do with the different but interesting personalities that Chumbak Design's founder-couple Shubhra Chadda and Vivek Prabhakar add to the brand's ideology. While Prabhakar, 38, loves to rustle up delectable fare in the kitchen, Chadda, 36, is a yoga enthusiast.     The couple, married in 2004, launched their Bengaluruheadquartered brand in 2010, and there has been no looking back since then. When they are not following thei r passion for art, design and innovative products, they make sure to devote time to their hobbies to keep the pressure of running a startup at bay.     Prabhakar loves to cook for family and friends and finds creating his own mix of ingredients in the kitchen a stress buster. That's a talent he picked up from his father. "My dad spent a lot of time in the kitchen. He would make something, with whatever was available at the time," said Prabhakar. Weekends were mostly reserved for dad's fare. He continues the tradition by taking charge of his family's breakfast and dinner every day.     A food connoisseur, Prabhakar loves to experiment with Thai, Japanese and Italian food. He also dreams of visiting the top 50 restaurants of the world. Among the off-beat things he has eaten, he said the "thousand-year egg and live baby squids dipped in hot soy sauce", both of which he tried in China, remain etched in his memory. "My philosophy regarding food is to try everything once. And if it doesn't resonate, never have it again," Prabhakar said.     Thanks to Prabhakar, Chadda too has become a food adventurer, but its yoga that keeps her upbeat. "I have been practicing yoga for five years now. I feel addicted to it," she said. A working mother, she makes it a point to never give up her yoga time in the morning, af ter sending their eight-yearold daughter to school. "That one hour in the morning, I make sure to dedicate to myself and shut everything else out."     Making yoga a lifestyle choice also comes from finding the right instructor, she said. "It is important to find the right guru, who understands what motivates you to practice yoga," Chadda said, referring to her yoga instructor, an exponent of the Bihar School of Yoga. "I used to have neck and shoulder pain, which have vanished because of yoga.     Physically, I feel like a 16-year-old," she said. Now, even as the brand is growing fast, the family makes sure to spend quality time together on Sunday afternoons, watching a film of their daughter's choice. "That time is the most precious, since the three of us hang out together," the startup founders said.  

