URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/sbi-stands-out-as-an-outperformer-compared-to-other-psu-and-private-banks-nilesh-parikh-edelweiss-financial-services/articleshow/53719247.cms

Title : SBI stands out as an outperformer compared to other PSU and private banks: Nilesh Parikh, Edelweiss Financial Services - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 12.03 PM IST

Document ID : 642

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Nilesh Parikh, Edelweiss Financial Services, says the NPA numbers will stay elevated for another quarter. Edited excerpts   ET Now: State Bank of India can clearly be called the one-eyed king in a land of the blind. What State Bank of India has indicated about their book quality and what they have committed is quite extraordinary given that other banks have underperformed.  Nilesh Parikh: Yes clearly. You said it right. I think compared to what we have seen most of the other peer set report numbers, our expectation was that the slippages could be elevated but clearly the standouts in terms of their performance also highlights what you said earlier in the show that size does matter. It is a large granular book and to assume that there will be lumpiness similar to what we see for the other banks is slightly unfounded. So I think clearly it stands out as a outperformer given what we have seen for the other state owned banks and some of the corporate focussed private sector banks also report.  ET Now: We know that State Bank of India clearly has a book which is better and currently best amongst the peers. What about the other ones? Where do think the book quality is above the industry average and where do you think the book quality still a black hole?  Nilesh Parikh: I think large part of the recognition has happened for most of the state owned banks. Obviously, over a couple of quarters we have seen slippages which have been unheard of but to specifically talk about some of these names, like Bank of Baroda and Punjab National Bank, we will stick to the larger ones.  My sense is that there will be another quarter when you would actually see those numbers still staying elevated. But the most important thing going forward is that the pace is coming off but what will decide the trajectory of the gross NPLs will be the pace of recovery resolutions and which I think is very difficult or given the current system that we have in place, very difficult to assume that you could see a meaningful recovery in this year. So that is more of a story of FY18. Our sense is that you could still see the headline gross NPLs going up a bit, maybe not at the same pace as we have seen over the last couple of quarters but clearly FY17 will end with a slightly higher number than what we have seen for this year. Next year onwards, this is where the recovery will start talking shape and you could see a decline from there. So sticking to the larger ones, our expectation is that for Bank of Baroda and PNB those numbers of gross NPLs could still be higher.  ET Now: From the amongst the smaller names, there have been one or two odd surprises and the commentary has been positive. Bank of India, I thought was reasonably positive. Earlier on, I think we came across Canara bank if I am not wrong which came out with a fairly decent quarter cum commentary as well. Any smaller names, what impressed you this quarter because of the delivery or the commentary?  Nilesh Parikh: Indian Bank is another bank which actually stood out amongst the smaller ones where I think you can say with certainty that the worst is behind us in terms of the extent of slippages. I think clearly trending down. The other thing is for Indian Bank is that their stock of gross NPLs plus the other problems assets which could be 5/25, your SDR, it is much smaller than the other banks where you could actually see meaningful accretion of slippages. So I think amongst the smaller ones, Indian Bank has stood out meaningfully along with Canara Bank and Bank of India. Compared to Q4, Q1 has been better but it is still too early to draw any meaningful trend on that.

