URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/multibaggers-in-the-making-30-stocks-which-scored-high-on-the-quality-scale/articleshow/53411721.cms

Title : Multibaggers in the making? 30 stocks which scored high on the quality scale - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zee Entertainment,Yes Bank,Wipro,TCS,stocks,Reliance Securities,Power Grid,Page Industries,NTPC,Morgan Stanley,LIC Housing Finance,L&T,Infosys,HDFC bank,Gruh Finance,Geojit BNP Paribas,earnings,Dabur,BNP Paribas,Bajaj Finance,Bajaj,Axis Bank,Asian Paints,Apollo Hospitals

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 03.48 PM IST

Document ID : 916

Content:
  NEW DELHI: In an environment where rising liquidity is taking the market higher and every stock looks attractive, investors should focus on quality names that can withstand any market correction when the tide turns and deliver multibagger returns.     The liquidity-driven rally could cause more harm than good to investors in the long term. That is why analysts are advising investors to stay with stocks that are showing decent earnings growth and scoring high on quality parameters such as ROCE, ROE and profit margins.     As valuations are well above averages on most metrics, it is time to book profits on some counters and increase exposure to some others. In the event of a strong correction, stocks that score high on thequality parameter should fall less in comparison with other high-beta names.     "We believe high beta sectors -- typically PSUs, corporate banks, metals, and industrials -- are likely to correct more," Morgan Stanley said in a note. The global investment bank favours stocks and sectors that have low operational risks such as IT, consumer banks, pharma, consumer durables and utilities.     The global investment bank analysed the quarterly numbers of all BSE200 companies for the past 33 quarters on several parameters such as sales growth, profit growth, Ebitda margin, PAT margin, return on equity (ROE), and debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio.     Stocks that scored high on the quality parameters included names like TCS, Dabur, Infosys, Page Industries, Wipro, Power Grid, Bharti Infratel, Apollo Hospitals, Asian Paints, Zee Entertainment and NTPC.     In the financial space, Yes Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, Gruh Finance, Bajaj Finance, L&T; Housing Finance and LIC Housing Finance scored higher on the quality count.     The companies were assigned scores in the range of 0 - 1 for consistency and absolute growth numbers. The chart suggests companies that scored high on a broad range of measures have delivered more stable and higher quality operational performance, the MS note said.          Multibaggers in the making?    There is no tailor-made rule for identifying multi-baggers, but stocks that score high on quality are likely to deliver not just multibagger returns but compounding returns over and over again.     There is no secret sauce for picking multibaggers, but certain parameters need to be studied in detail. To spot a multibagger in the making, investors should analyse the product which a company is offering (innovative), along with the business model of the company, experts said.     "What matters is the size of the opportunity and the relative size of the company to tap the same. Apart from this, operating parameters such as return ratios, quality of balance sheet, cash flow, scope for financial leverage at the right time also matter," Reliance Securities said in a note.     "Commitment and integrity of promoter, which is relatively subjective to judge also play a very important role. Last but not the least is the price at which you are buying. If someone buys a very good business at a very aggressive price, the chances of success will reduce," it said.     Return on equity as well as return on capital employed (RoCE) play a crucial role in stock picking. A high RoCE indicates that a company is a superior manager of capital and has the ability to track the working capital cycle.     "A high RoCE is correlated with superior stock returns and can reduce the probability for future fundraising initiatives, which will help them keep their debt-to-equity ratio at lower levels. Such companies with huge capex plans with funds availability can provide higher returns," Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas, told ETMarkets.com.     "The low debt-to-equity ratio can show that a company is growing with its own resources at a faster pace, which is a good sign. Also, its cash outflow in the form of interest payment is limited," he said.     Historically, it has been noticed that companies with an equivalent D/E can outperform in the respective industry, especially in a high-interest rate environment.    

