URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/Why-the-Pierre-De-Coubertin-medal-is-making-headlines/articleshow/53787962.cms

Title : Why the Pierre De Coubertin medal is making headlines - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Rio,Pierre De Coubertin Medal,Olympics,Nikki Hamblin,D’Agostino

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.17 AM IST

Document ID : 972

Content:
 THE WHAT MEDAL?  Pierre de Coubertin medal — the fourth medal in Olympics.    A FOURTH KIND?   Yes, after the gold, silver and bronze medals, there is this fourth kind.    WHO WINS IT?   All the athletes are entitled to it. But one really has to 'earn' it.    AND HOW CAN ONE DO THAT?   Named after the French founder of the modern games, this medal honours athletes who embody and exemplify the spirit of sportsmanship or exceptional service to the Olympics.    AND THEY GIVE IT EVERY YEAR?   To date, after 30 summer games and 22 winter ones, only 17 Pierre de Coubertin medals have been awarded, making it the single most prestigious prize offered by the International Olympic Committee.    DO WE HAVE ANY CONTENDERS IN RIO?   Yes. American Abbey D'Agostino and New Zealander Nikki Hamblin showed what sportsmanship is.    REALLY?   Yes. During the 5,000 m qualifiers, D'Agostino clipped Hamblin from behind and they both tumbled over. D'Agostino got up, but Hamblin heavily hurt her ankle.    AND?   Instead of running in pursuit of the others, D'Agostino crouched down and put her hand under the New Zealander's arms to help her up, and urged her not to quit.    THAT IS HEARTWARMING.   Absolutely. Both crossed the finish line together.    GOOD FOR THEM!   Yes. Brazilian marathoner Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima, who lit the Olympic cauldron in Rio this year, is a proud winner of this fourth medal. At the 2004 Games marathon, a spectator, attacked him while he was leading the race. Following the incident, Lima fell back from first to third place, winning the bronze medal. He was later awarded the Pierre de Coubertin medal for sportsmanship for that race.  

