URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//lock-into-debt-schemes-as-interest-rates-peak/articleshow/11856133.cms

Title : Lock into debt schemes as interest rates peak - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : reserve bank of india,Employee Provident Fund,debt scheme

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 05.57 AM IST

Document ID : 436

Content:
      The interest rates are at their peak levels with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) signaling a softening in the monetary policy in its previous quarterly review last month. The RBI is expected to cut the key interest rates, going forward, in the near to medium terms, if the inflation rate stays down. It is an opportunity for all investors - those with a high risk appetite and the risk-averse - to lock-in to debt instruments that offer high interest rates for a medium to long term.             On the other hand, the equity markets have gone up quite significantly over the last couple of months and the downside risk has increased in equity due to the stretched valuations. Analysts suggest small investors should reduce their exposure to equity and increase their portfolio allocation to safer debt instruments as the situation is quite uncertain in the equity markets.             These are some debt-based instruments investors can choose from:        Savings deposit        These instruments are risk-free and offer good returns in terms of interest. Savings deposit schemes include different types of bank deposits, provident funds, public provident fund, National Savings Certificate etc.             Some of the long-term deposits also qualify for income tax rebate, and therefore become more attractive for individual investors.        Debt mutual fund        The debt-based mutual funds are good investments as the interest rates are at their peaks. Debt-based mutual funds are expected to offer better returns due to the better realisations on their underlying debt instruments.             There are many options available among debt funds and you can invest according to your investment horizon and risk-returns balance. Short-term investors can invest in liquid funds that offer good returns and are highly liquid. On the other hand, investors looking for higher returns can go for pure debt funds or balanced funds.        Tax planning        It is close to the end of the current financial year - 2011-12. It's time to plan your tax savings by investing in instruments that qualify for rebate. There are some instruments that are exempt from income tax under the Income Tax Act.             These are some tax-saving instruments:        Section 80C        This section of the Income Tax Act allows income tax exemptions to individuals on specified investment instruments. The maximum limit of income tax rebate under this Section is Rs 1 lakh.             You can invest Rs 1 lakh in one or more of these instruments to avail the tax rebate under Section 80C:             Employee Provident Fund or Public Provident Fund Life insurance policy (term insurance as well as endowment plan) Pension plan Equity-linked saving scheme (ELSS) of mutual funds Specified government infrastructure bond Principal repayment on a housing loan also qualifies for tax rebate under Section 80C National Savings Certi-ficate        Section 80CCF        You can invest in specified long-term infrastructure bonds to claim a rebate under Section 80CCF. It is important to keep in mind that all infrastructure bonds do not qualify under Section 80CCF. Therefore, you should ensure the exemption while investing. The maximum limit of tax rebate under Section 80CCF is Rs 20,000 and this limit is in addition to the Rs 1 lakh limit of Section 80C.    

