URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/energy/power/west-bengal-to-achieve-100-per-cent-electrification-by-march-2017/articleshow/53786603.cms

Title : West Bengal to achieve 100 per cent electrification by March 2017 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,West Bengal,people,electrification,Education,distribution

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 06.01 PM IST

Document ID : 769

Content:
  KOLKATA: West Bengal is poised to achieve electrification of 100% household by March 2017 two years ahead of the centres deadline of 2019.     "With electrification of homes in Sunderbans, the state will achieve 100% electrification by March 2017," said West Bengal minister for power & non-conventional energy sources, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in Kolkata on Saturday. He was talking at an energy conclave organised by CII.     Describing the state as one of the few where power is not only surplus but uninterrupted, too, Chattopadhyay said the Bengal government is fully aware that power is key to development in all areas - industry, agriculture, education, etc.     "Explains why the state government has turned its focus on electrifying all households. As on today, 97% households in West Bengal have already been electrified," Chattopadhyay said.     However, Reji Pillai, president, Smart Grid Forum presented a divergent view, saying that power surplus is a myth in a country where millions of people still live without electricity. However, he said with commitment and political will as demonstrated by the government, things will be a lot better.     Nevertheless, in an effort to bring stability in the states power distribution network, the state has decided to set up a Rs 4,500 crore 1000 MW pumped storage facility which has recently received Central Electricity Authority's green signal.     "We have cleared the 1000 mw Turga pump storage hydel power project in Bengal's Purulia district and it is now awaiting environmental clearance," Central Electricity Authority chairman S D Dubey said.     Minister Chatterjee said the formal letter has not arrived but CEA has said it has been cleared.     The approval is conditional on for want of some more land which will be sorted out in due course, state government officials said.     The state was planning to feed the pump storage hydel project with 1200 mw solar power. Initially, both the solar and the power plant were planned as an integrated project but due to certain reservations on funding they have now been segregated.     The state now plans to finance the project with loan either from World Bank or Japanese lending agencies.  

