URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/fifteen-stocks-in-focus-on-thursday-18-august-2016/articleshow/53749627.cms

Title : Fifteen stocks in focus on Thursday, 18 August 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Unitech,Uflex,Taparia,Sun Pharma,Reliance communications,Power Grid Corporation of India,Power Grid,NTPC,Nestle India,Nestle,Lupin,Insecticides India,HPCL,Hindustan Petroleum,Hathway Cable,Gammon India,GAIL,Dewan Housing Finance Corporation,Cipla

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 828

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open higher on Thursday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.     "If the index manages to hold above 8,665 then it may head towards 8,720 zones while holding below 8600 might attract a profit booking decline towards next support of 8,540 then fresh selling towards 8,475 zones," Chandan Taparia, Derivatives & Technical Analyst - Equity Research at Anand Rathi Financial Services, told ETMarkets.com.    Here is a list of top fifteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Reliance communication:  Telecom operator Reliance Communications launched a new scheme for its 3G and 4G customers that it claims will make calling from mobile applications 95 per cent cheaper.    Lupin, Sun Pharma, Cipla:  Domestic pharma majors Lupin, Sun Pharma and Cipla have dominated the list of top reputed pharmaceuticals brand survey released. As many as 58 pharma brands feature in the list which includes 41 domestic and 17 international pharmaceutical brands.    Bharti Airtel:  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., the city-state's biggest phone company, plans to spend about $2 billion to invest in Thailand's Intouch Holdings Pcl and raise its stake in India's Bharti Telecom Ltd., said a media report quoting sources.    NTPC:  NTPC, India's largest electricity generator, is tweaking its expansion plan to become the biggest renewable energy company in the next 10 years.    Voltas:  Air conditioner maker Voltas is chalking out a strategy to double profits over the next four years, according to a senior executive of the company.    Hero MotCorp:  The country's largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp said as part of the business realignment process within the Group, Sunil Munjal will cease to be classified as promoter in the firm.    Uflex:  Packaging company Uflex reported an increase of 11.62 percent in consolidated net profit to Rs 86.16 crore for the first quarter ended June 30.    DHFL:  Dewan Housing Finance Corporation on Wednesday said it will raise up to Rs 10,000 crore through issuance of secured non-convertible debentures (NCDs) in one or more tranches.    Unitech:  The Supreme Court has asked Gurgaon-based real estate firm Unitech to deposit Rs 15 crore with the court registry representing the principal amount paid to the builder by 38 home buyers in its much-delayed housing projects Unitech Vistas in Gurgaon and another project in Noida.    Indiabulls Housing:  Indiabulls Housing Finance said it proposes to raise over Rs 1,600 crore from non-convertible debentures (NCDs) to fund business expansion.    Gammon India:  Infrastructure player Gammon India today said it has won a Rs 870-crore contract from NHAI for widening of a highway in Karnataka under NHDP.    Nestle India:  Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) major Nestle India launched new variants in its Maggi Noodles portfolio and re-launched cup noodles, a company statement said here on Wednesday.    Dalmia Bharat:  Cement maker Dalmia Bharat posted 76 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 92 crore for the quarter ended on June 30, 2016 compared to the same period of last year.    HPCL & GAIL:  Some foreign players have expressed interest in partnering with Hindustan Petroleum (HPCL) and GAIL to build a petrochemicals complex in Andhra Pradesh, the head of HPCL has said.    Power Grid: Power Grid Corporation of India is looking to participate in intra-state projects, a deviation from its traditional role as the central power transmission utility that has been prompted by the reforms in state-run power distribution companies.    Insecticides India:  Agro-chemicals firm Insecticides India has said it has tied up with Japan's Nihon Nohyaku Co to launch new products for paddy, pulses and vegetable crops, said a media report.    Hathway Cable & Datacom:  The company's board has given its nod to divest up to 90 lakh shares of the subsidiary through an OFS.  

