URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/rbi-stays-accommodative-10-rate-sensitive-stocks-to-buy-now/articleshow/52633250.cms

Title : RBI stays accommodative; 10 rate sensitive stocks to buy now - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Welspun India,Tata Motors,reserve bank of india,New Delhi,Market,LIC Housing,KNR Constructions,India,housing finance,Geojit Bnp Paribas Financial Services Ltd,Food,Exide,economy,Business,BNP Paribas

Date :  Jun 07, 2016, 01.50 PM IST

Document ID : 955

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) maintained status quo on key policy rates at its second bimonthly monetary policy review of FY17 but remained accommodative, raising prospects of future rate cuts.     The third bimonthly monetary policy statement of the financial year will be announced on August 9, 2016.     Data since the last monetary policy meeting showed a sharper-than-anticipated surge in inflationary pressures emanating from a number of food items as well as a reversal in commodity prices.     Given the uncertainties, the Reserve Bank of India said it would stay on hold, but the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative.     "RBI will monitor macroeconomic and financial developments for any further scope for policy action," said the RBI statement.     ETMarkets.com has collated a list of 10 rate-sensitive stocks to buy to gain from any rate cut in coming days.    SMC Research   Indiabulls Housing Finance: Buy | Target price: Rs 909    The company has a track record of delivering robust financial performance. Going forward, the company is likely to maintain the same momentum on the back of healthy loan growth expectation and expansion in net interest margin (NIM).     Indiabulls Housing Finance is also focusing on improving its assets quality which would have a positive impact on the overall performance of the company. It has maintained the guidance of 20%-25% growth across key parameters for FY2017 and proposes to reduce the cost-to-income ratio by 70 bps in FY17 and further by 70 bps in FY18.    Exide Industries: Buy | Target price: Rs 174    The company has growth opportunities in industrial and automotive segments especially solar, telecom, e-rickshaw and commercial vehicle segments. It has strategies in place to tap the potential.     However, the new entrants and aggressive expansion plan of existing competitors are the biggest challenges. As the company is one of the largest leaders in the battery space, it is likely to get the benefit, if the demand scenario improves.     Moreover, it is also expected that cost reduction initiative and focus on profitable segment would drive the margins going forward.    Welspun India: Buy | Target price: Rs 128    The company has ambitious plans to raise its revenue to $5 billion by 2020, with its flagship textile business, which is expected to contribute half of its income. The Company has a strong emphasis on innovation which is reflected in the number of patents and trademarks, which it holds and has applied for.     More than 30 per cent of the total revenues of Welspun India comes from the innovative products developed by the company.    Huhtamaki Paper Products: Buy | Target price: Rs 325    The company is operating at around 75%-80% capacity utilization. A normal capex of around Rs 60 crore is planned for CY 2016.     New Strategic acquisitions, strong market share in fragmented flexible packaging segment, growth in consumer goods, good growth in top line and bottom line with zero debt in the company, strong operating cash flows and strong parent company would further strengthen the financial position.    Arvind: Buy | Target price Rs 349    The company enjoys a global leadership positions in textiles segment and has an unmatched domestic portfolio of apparel brands and retail formats. The company's capability in manufacturing garments, coupled with its positioning of the most preferred franchisee/distribution partner in India, it is poised to benefit from an increase in demand for apparels.     The company has been on an expansion spree to increase its retail presence ramping up its brand portfolio. The company has added eight stores for brands like GAP and Sephora and one for Aerospatale in the current year. All the power brands will become profitable in the next financial year.    Analyst: Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services   Tata Motors: Buy | Target price: Rs 536    Tata Motors (TAMO) is India's largest CV manufacturer with 52 per cent market share in M&HCV; segment. The domestic M&HCV; segment is going at a faster pace registering a growth of 26.5% in FY16.     The reduction in the interest rate will give a key to unlock the private spending in the infra projects and this will further increase the demand for M&HCV; sales.     Lower interest scenario will lead to higher spending in PV segment along with the implementation of seventh pay commission.    KNR Constructions: Buy | Target price: Rs 642    KNR Construction Ltd is one of the major EPC players in the infrastructure service. Currently, the construction space is moving at a slow pace as the banks are unwilling to increase their exposure to the sector due to the rise in NPAs.     A reduction in interest rate will energise the tepid sector by way of additional capex in the economy and expect order flow to rise. A strong balance sheet, efficient working capital management and comfortable debt/equity ratio at 0.9x, make KNR a favourable pick.     The robust order book of Rs4,554cr which is 5 times of FY16 revenue adds strong visibility & scalability over the next 2-3 yrs.    Analyst: Dharmesh Kant, Head - Retail Research, MOSL.   Hero MotoCorp: Buy | Target price: Rs 3,305    The results for the two-wheeler makes came largely in line with estimates, with stable Ebidta margins at 15.7 per cent. The normal monsoon is likely to give a boost to growth in H2FY17.     Almost 50 per cent of the sales comes from the rural market. It caters to price-sensitive segment. Good monsoons, roll out of 7th Pay commission and direct benefit transfer to farmers are going to act as big triggers for the company.     The cost-cutting initiatives are likely to drive 90 bps saving in FY17. At present, the scooter sales are driving volume growth. Earnings per share (EPS) is likely to grow at 16 per cent CAGR for the next couple of years based on 11 per cent CAGR volume growth.    LIC Housing Finance: Buy | Target price: Rs 581    The strong growth in high-yielding individual loan against property (LAP) is likely to act as a key growth driver for the stock. The decline in the cost of funds is likely to aid spreads improvement and is a key monitorable going forward. LIC has a stable and strong asset quality with GNPA/NNPA's at 0.45% and 0.20% respectively are key positive.    SBI: Buy | Target price: Rs 245    The clean-up continues while adjusted core operating performance for the quarter ended March 2016 was largely in line with estimates. Going forward, as the economy gathers strength on account of better monsoons and various policy initiatives start delivering, we expect SBI to have the best advantage.     We like SBI for its lowest net stressed loans (NSL) at 6.4 per cent, relatively better PCR of 60 per cent, healthy capitalisation and focus on core operating profitability. SBI is highly geared with economic up cycle.    (Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of ETMarkers.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.)   

