URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/period-power-are-companies-doing-enough-to-step-it-up-for-women-with-the-right-product/articleshow/53614615.cms

Title : Period power! Are companies doing enough to step it up for women with the right product? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Malini Parmar,Harish Bijoor Consults,Glenmark,Fogg deo,Darshan Patel

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.14 AM IST

Document ID : 306

Content:
 By Shramana Ganguly    India's IT capital Bengaluru, Malini Parmar was finalising the design of menstrual cups that she would soon launch for Indian women. When Zivame screamed out from smartphones and desktops about two years ago, questioning Indian women on the "fit" of her innerwear, it was a revolution of sorts. Then, stand-up comic Aditi Mittal shredded period shame to bits on social media.     First, it was lingerie. Then came sexual health. Be it Parmar or Fogg deo promoter Darshan Patel, who is set to launch a women's health product in September, or Vikas Bagaria, who has formulated toilet seat sanitiser PeeSafe to make visits to public washrooms stress-free; entrepreneurs have dared to move beyond the cosmetic to offering sexual wellbeing products to Indian women. "Women's sexual wellbeing has finally come out of the closet and hence, something like a menstrual cup will find acceptance in India," reasons Parmar, creator of Stonesoup Wings.     Working since 2011 in the field of waste management, Parmar hopes Indian women would replace disposable sanitary pads with menstrual cups that she claims are more environmental-friendly and safe. At Rs 800 for a cup that is reusable for 10 years, it is a sustainable proposition that she hopes would catch on with Indian women. Parmar is going against the tide in a country where women's health is restricted to whispers. But she hopes that she would find a venture capitalist to back her plans to manufacture 1000 and eventually 5000 menstrual cups per month.     In a nation where packs of sanitary napkins bought at pharmacies are still covered with newspaper or a black plastic bag, things are finally looking up. "The sanitary napkin buy is still not a matter of open pride, but the product category itself has come out of the closet," notes brand-strategy specialist Harish Bijoor of Harish Bijoor Consults. With women exposed to global commentary around period power, brands have become frank in discussing topics that they would otherwise shy away from. "However, while the big stakeholders are still hesitant to break the mould, smaller brands are taking the lead," notes Santosh Padhi, founder, Taproot India.     Menstrual cups, tampons, vaginal washes and more, are treated less and less like contraband. "These are still not open drawing room conversation subjects of mixed sex gatherings, but we are getting there," notes Bijoor. Back in 2012, when Glenmark Pharmaceuticals launched vaginal hygiene brand VWash, it focused on clinics. Not until a year-and-half later, did the brand make it to OTC. Modern trade happened much later, 2014 onwards, recollects Sujesh Vasudevan, president, GPL. "While this category is well-developed in Asian markets, India is still in its infancy.     Yet, the response is encouraging and the product is gradually becoming want-based from need-based," he says reflecting on how the product's share through direct retail purchase now exceeds clinic sales.     In Ahmedabad, yet another entrepreneur has challenged the conventional. Aditi Gupta's comic narrative Menstrupedia of "how, why and when" of the monthly cycles of a woman began in May 2013 with crowdfunding of Rs 5.15 lakh. Since its inception it has been read by thousands of girls and women. Whisper-maker P&G; has teamed up with Gupta to stop "period shame" that affects the lives of millions of girls across India, who are incapacitated by period stigma, made to skip school and considered "unclean". P&G; and Menstrupedia ran 'Touch The Pickle' campaign that won a Grand Prix at Cannes Lions.     Some of these brands have used advertising to bring the subject out in the open. Sujesh recollects that VWash TVC happened around mid-2013. "Considering the subject was very sensitive, we had to communicate to the target group keeping that perspective in mind and yet ensure that it does not make families uncomfortable." Modern trade has been of great help in improving access since women could comfortably pick up the product off the shelves.     With women accepting their sex-based needs and embracing brands that improve health, entrepreneurs like Vikas Bagaria and Malini Parmar have begun working overtime. "Women have started accepting that there are gaps pertaining to products taking care of their sexual wellbeing. Why else would more women welcome products like PeeSafe or vaginal washes or after intercourse washes," says Vikas Bagaria, promoter of toilet sanitiser spray PeeSafe. Bloggers have been reviewing his brand and influencing the new-age consumer, both men and women. Bagaria has sold over one lakh spray cans in the last 18 months and hopes to launch vaginal washes and similar products in future. He's seeking about `3.5 cr for expansion and has had acquisition talks with FMCG majors.     Says Sudarshan Banerjee, director Utopeia Communicationz: "It cannot be denied that there is a significant amount of chatter on sexual health, look up crowdsourced feminist accounts of 'GenderlogIndia' and the recent buzz created by 'Agents of Ishq'. New age media companies and content producers like TVF have started channels like 'Girliyapa' where they have covered topics like 'Periods' & 'girls buying condoms' in a humorous format."     Banerjee, however, points out this is a case of people and their channels challenging conventional thinking, and not enough is reflecting on the brands' side. "There are a few cases that do come to mind, like Whisper's 'Touch the Pickle' which was celebrated at international award festivals and the recent ad by Piramal's iCan on contraception with the women saying, "Ab hum kucch kahein", but maybe it is still taboo in company boardrooms or brand marketing offices," he says adding: "Honestly, one hopes women in advertising and on the client's side would lead conversations about women's health more through their brands and marketing channels."  

