URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/new-iphone-to-have-dual-camera-but-no-headphone-jack/articleshow/53608458.cms

Title : New iPhone to have dual camera but no headphone jack - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : iPhone 6S,iPhone,headphone jack,dual camera,bluetooth,Apple Inc

Date : Aug 09, 2016, 04.05 AM IST

Document ID : 66

Content:
  SAN FRANCISCO: Apple Inc is preparing to unveil successors to the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus as early as next month with more advanced photography capabilities and upgraded hardware in a design similar to that of last year's models, according to people familiar with the matter.     The standout features will be a dual-camera system on the larger iPhone, a re-engineered home button that responds to pressure with haptic feedback and the removal of the devices' headphone jack, said the people, who didn't want to be identified discussing unannounced features. Apple declined to comment.     While iPhone demand has waned in recent quarters, partly due to the lull between product launches, the device continues to be the major source o f Apple's revenue.     The new models will be critical to the holiday quarter, and Apple is counting on the phones to prop up sales ahead of an expected iPhone overhaul in 2017, the device's 10th anniversary.     Moving away from the typical two-year iPhone redesign cycle, this year's models will look similar to the 6 and 6S, the people said, who added that there will still be noticeable tweaks.     The new iPhones will retain the same 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch screen sizes as their predecessors, the first of which was introduced in September 2014. Apple will remove the two innermost antenna lines that run across the back of the current iPhones, the people added.     The dual cameras on the larger new iPhone will produce brighter photos with more detail, according to a person who has used a prototype version of the upcoming device. Both sensors, which each capture colour differently, simultaneously take a picture, and the device produces a single, merged photograph, said the person.     The new iPhones will remove the headphone jack in favor of connectivity via Bluetooth and the charging port. That will make room for a second speaker, said the people.     Apple started allowing headphone makers to build headphones that can connect via the iPhone's charger connector in 2014, the same year the company acquired headphone maker Beats Electronics. Macotakara earlier reported the headphone jack's demise  

