URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/ericsson-beefs-up-leadership-team-moves-three-senior-executives-to-india/articleshow/53182694.cms

Title : Ericsson beefs up leadership team, moves three senior executives to India - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : jose luis serrato,Ericsson,david hagerbro,Bhutan

Date :  Jul 13, 2016, 01.27 AM IST

Document ID : 262

Content:
  KOLKATA: Swedish telecom gear maker Ericsson has beefed up its leadership team in India by moving three senior executives to the country in a move that mirrors changes in the world's leading networks vendor's global organisational structure.     A person aware of the development told ET that Jose Luis Serrato, who was operations head of Ericsson's Latam and Caribbean region, has moved to India as vice president and head of network services while Ekow Nelson, who was steering the company's consulting and systems integration business in the Middle East, has been named India head of the IT and cloud business.     Besides, David Hagerbro has relocated from Sweden to take over as vice president and customer unit head of the service providers vertical at Ericsson India. He will oversee key service provider accounts in northern India, along with telecom companies in Bhutan and Nepal.     Nitin Bansal, who was previously in Hagerbro's current role, will now head Ericsson India's network products business unit. Bansal has also held overseas roles in technical sales and telecom account management in Ericsson's Middle East and Africa operations.     "Top talent like Nelson and Serrato will strengthen the India team and accelerate our growth strategy in the country, while Bansal knows the needs of Indian operators and the market situation," Paolo Colella, Ericsson's India region head told ET.     Ericsson had earlier this year announced a string of organisational and structural changes to strengthen strategy execution globally. The company's new global structure comprises five business units - network products, network services, IT and cloud products, IT and cloud services, and media.     Induction of senior executives into the Indian leadership team comes at a time when Ericsson's India arm has created three new leadership positions to mirror three out of the five new global business units - network services, network products, and IT and cloud.     "The new (organisational) structure is optimised for different customer needs and entails an evolved go-to-market model with clear end-to-end accountability," said Colella.     The two network business units are critical in the India context as the services unit will seek to capture opportunities in the 3G and 4G space, besides focusing on Ericsson's managed services business, network roll-outs and customer support.     The network products business unit, in turn, will focus on maximising sales of key mobile broadband and core IP gear. The IT and cloud business will be an integrated vertical in India, encompassing products and services.  

