URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/heres-a-detailed-guide-to-help-you-navigate-through-the-windows-anniversary-edition/articleshow/53754545.cms

Title : Here's a detailed guide to help you navigate through the Windows anniversary edition - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Windows,technology

Date : Aug 18, 2016, 03.04 PM IST

Document ID : 393

Content:
 1 Improvements To Edge    Edge finally supports extensions.ted, the number is limited for now Granted, the number is limited for now (AdBlock is there, as are a handful of oth ers like Evernote, Amazon, MS Office etc.) but you can install them just like you would on any other browser. Support for biometric login will be supported -so, if configured, you will be able to sign into your email or other websites by scanning a finger. Finally, there's an auto-pause feature that `cuts-off ' activity in areas of the webpage that are out of bounds -in creasing battery life.    2 Windows Hello Extends Usefulness    If you have Windows 10, you already use Windows Hello to sign in. This au thentication is moving to the Windows Store as well. Hello can use a fingerprint scan, face scan using the webcam or Iris scan (if your machine webcam or Iris scan (if your machine supports it) to log you in or sign into your apps -obviously, you need to sign into the machine with your Microsoft account first and you can continue to use Hello in the Store.    3 Windows Ink    A lot of Windows 10 devices have touch screens or support a stylus. Windows Ink is the name given to the set of fea tures that support this interaction.     Windows Ink Workspace will be the starting point for three new features: starting point for three new features: Sticky Notes, Sketchpad and Screen Sketch. Sticky Notes is like, well, sticky notes -but with support for Cortana.     You can doodle with Sketchpad using fingers or a stylus and palm rejection is included. Screen Sketch takes a screenshot that you can draw over or annotate.    4 A smarter, more useful cortana    Cortana now has access to many more apps including MS Office, your full cal endar and Outlook mail. This means Cortana will be a lot more aware about Cortana will be a lot more aware about you -your activities, work, appoint ments and so on. This will offer more contextual awareness and you can ask Cortana to help you with things that were not possible earlier. For instance, you could ask "Where's my lunch ap pointment tomorrow?"    5 Windows action center    You can see a lot more of your notifications in the action center -including some from your Android or Windows Phone device. Notifications will be sorted here according to app and you can customise which app is allowed to dis play notifications here. Notifications from your most important apps can be given priority, while others can be `high' or `normal'. Finally , there are a bunch of quick actions you can per form -these are customisable too.    6 Overhauled start menu    The start menu now has three sections.The left most row now has icons for file explorer, settings, and power (these used to be at the bottom of the start menu earlier) and instead of ` All apps' in the middle row you will see a list of all the installed apps. Your recently in 5 stalled and most used apps appear on top of the app list for quick access. The right side continues to show your live tiles. This revamped start menu feels more sorted and easy to use.    7 The connect app    Connect app lets you connect a Windows 10 computer to a Windows 10Android smartphone using Miracast wireless streaming technology . There is no need to connect your smartphone using a wire or a dock and neither do you need to connect any additional peripherals -your existing computer will show the connected phone's interface in a window. This will enable users to access their personal files, emails and other data stored on the phone on any computer for work -you will no longer have to sign-in and worry about signing-out and deleting files from a shared computer.    8 More useful lock screen    Windows 10 Anniversary update adds a few useful enhancements to the lock screen that are suitable for both desktop and tablet use. The first big change is that Cortana can now be accessed even from the lock screen -you will have to enable it from the Cortana settings. The other useful feature is the option to show Multimedia controls on the lock-screen. They are visible along with album art on the bottom right corner and allow you to play pause and skip tracks without the need of unlocking the computer.    9 Detailed battery usage    If you head to Settings > System > Battery , you can now view battery consumption of individual apps. Moreover, you can even adjust the behaviour of each app for power usage. Clicking on an app will show you three options `Always allowed in background', `Managed by windows' and `Never allowed in background' -this enables you to switch off unnecessary apps from consuming battery when not in use.    10 Tablet mode    Tablet mode gets a few handy tweaks with the Anniversary update for improving the overall user experience.The list of all installed apps on your device now appears in full-screen mode similar to the Windows 8 Metro interface that is ideal for touchscreen control. You can choose to have the apps list appear as large tiles or as an alphabetical list as per your preference. The other handy addition is the option to autohide the Windows taskbar in tablet mode -this lets the apps use the entire screen estate for giving it a more authentic tablet look and feel.    10 Things you need to know about the update    The Anniversary Update is officially Windows 10 version 1607. If you're already on Windows 10, you should head to the update section in Settings and do a quick check for the update. You can get rid of the annoying white screens everywhere in Windows -a new dark mode can be enabled by going to Settings > Personalisation > Colors (it's still not systemwide though).     The minimum requirements for Windows 10 Anniversary Update are a PC with 2GB RAM and 20GB free storage (16GB for 32bit Windows). Also, your device has to have a screen larger than 7-inches.     Here's another reason to use Genuine Windows. Your license key will be linked to your Microsoft account. This will make it easier to re-activate Windows in case you upgrade your hard drive.     The infamous Blue Screen of S Death (BSoD) is quite rare now but in case it does show up, you'll see a QR code and not just a cryptic error message.Scan the code to get info about your particular error.Windows Defender is not the only line of defence people use S and Microsoft knows that -Defender will now `play nice' with other security software.Two guards is better than one!    Windows 10 Apps will behave    There is some love for Skype this time around --the app is inmore like mobile apps: you can reset apps by going to Settings > cluded in the update unlike last Apps & Features (similar to cleartime and if you sign in, you'll ing cache on Android -it wipes receive notifications for inout any downloaded content and coming calls and messages add-ons for that particular app). even if the app is not open.     Cortana can be more useful if If you happen to have an Xbox T you're among the small group One console, Xbox Play Anywhere will let you buy a game once and that also uses Windows Phone play on both devices. The game -the assistant can pull phone needs to have this feature (Play notifications and show them Anywhere) enabled though. on the PC screen.  

