URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/narsingh-yadav-devastated-at-cas-verdict-says-will-prove-innocence/articleshow/53766086.cms

Title : Narsingh Yadav devastated at CAS verdict, says will prove innocence - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : WADA,Rio Olympics,Narsingh Yadav,NADA,CAS

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 09.51 AM IST

Document ID : 4

Content:
  RIO DE JANEIRO: His dream of representing the country in Rio Olympics shattered after a verdict of the CAS, a devastated Narsingh Yadav today said that he will do everything to prove his innocence.     In a stunning reversal of fortunes, wrestler Narsingh was ousted from the Olympics yesterday and slapped with a four-year ban for flunking a dope test after the ad hoc division of Court of Arbitration for Sports overturned the clean chit given to him by the National Anti-Doping Agency.     "To say I am devastated at the decision of CAS would be putting it mildly. I have gone through so much over the last two months off the mat but the thought of fighting for the glory of the nation at the Games had kept me going. My dream of competing and winning the country a medal at the Rio Olympics has been cruelly snatched away from me twelve hours before my first bout," Narsingh, who was to fight in men's 74 kg category, said.     "But I will do everything it takes to prove my innocence. It is all I have left to fight for," he said in a statement issued by his sponsors JSW Sports.     The statement said that a review of the decision could be filed if further evidence is found pertaining to the claim of sabotage made by Narsingh.     "We will be pressing for a review of the decision that WADA would be amenable to if further evidence is found pertaining to sabotage," it said.     "JSW Sports strongly believes in Narsingh's innocence and will stand by the wrestler in doing everything to fight for justice," it added.     The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) had appealed against the NADA all-clear to Narsingh at the ad hoc division of the CAS at Rio, three days ahead of his scheduled opening bout at the Olympics.  

