URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/instead-of-micromanaging-mutual-funds-sebi-amfi-should-work-towards-reducing-overall-expense-ratio/articleshow/50211213.cms

Title : Instead of micromanaging mutual funds, Sebi & AMFI should work towards reducing overall expense ratio - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Service tax,sebi,mutual funds,Fund manager,Amfi,AMC

Date :  Dec 17, 2015, 03.09 AM IST

Document ID : 864

Content:
    Mutual fund regulator Sebi and industry body AMFI are now at loggerheads with several asset management companies (AMCs) on three issues.     The first contentious issue is the 'high salary structure' of key functionaries (like CEO, CIO, fund manager, sales head, compliance chief, etc) at AMCs. While Sebi wants to bring them down, AMCs want freedom to decide it themselves.     The second contentious issue is 'distributor commission'. While several AMCs want to give high upfront commissions to get assets under management (AUM), AMFI is against it. Since AMCs are not legally bound by AMFI directives, AMFI took Sebi's help recently to implement its 'maximum 1% upfront commission rule' on dissenting AMCs.     The third contentious issue is 'service tax burden of distributors'. While some smaller AMCs are ready to share the burden partially, larger AMCs are against it, so they forced AMFI to ask smaller AMCs 'not to share service tax burden of distributors'. It remains to be seen whether all AMCs will obey to this guidance or just like earlier upfront fee cap, AMFI will be have to take the help of Sebi to implement it.     We also agree that expense structure should come down so that mutual fund investors benefit. However, none of the recent steps taken by Sebi and AMFI will result in it. For example, salaries of AMC officials come directly from the profit and loss account of AMCs and any reduction will only help the AMC to increase its profits. The beneficiary will be AMC promoters and not mutual fund investors. Although distributor commission is charged as expense ratio, the same also comes under the overall expense ratio cap set by Sebi.     Instead of 'micromanaging' mutual funds, Sebi & AMFI should work towards reducing the overall expense ratio a scheme can charge. How can this be done?     First, remove 'layered fee structure' and impose a uniform fee of 1.75% for equity schemes and 1.5% for debt schemes (i.e. irrespective of their size). Currently, equity mutual funds are allowed to charge 2.5% for the first Rs 100 crore, 2.25% for the next Rs 300 crore, 2% for the subsequent Rs 300 crore and 1.75% for assets over that. Debt mutual fund can charge 25 bps less.     Second, remove additional expense ratios (30 bps for collection from tier II cities and 20 bps for no load funds in lieu of exit load) allowed recently. Although AMCs should go to smaller cities to develop their own business, there is no need to punish existing investors for that.     Similarly, it is existing investors who are taking the hit in the form of higher impact costs when large investors trade using no load funds. So there is no need to compensate AMCs for that. Exit Load is the fee charged by mutual fund from investors for early redemption and AMCs used to pocket this exit load earlier (i.e. before Sebi asked them to credit it to the scheme).     Through these measures, Sebi should bring down the expense ratio from the current level of around 3% (which is very high) to around to 2% and benefit the long-term mutual fund investors.   

