URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/everybodys-over-the-moon-with-gst-where-are-the-other-reforms-andrew-freris-ecognosis-advisory/articleshow/53734028.cms

Title : Everybody's over the moon with GST, where are the other reforms?: Andrew Freris, Ecognosis Advisory - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,So,Retail,people,open,News,markets,Market,labour market,India,in,gdp,et now,ET,Education,economy,China,Brexit,bonds,Andrew Freris

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 09.28 AM IST

Document ID : 635

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Andrew Freris, CEO, Ecognosis Advisory, says if GST is the most important economic reform in India this century, either I am missing out something or I laugh. Edited excerpts       ET Now: Do you think the Fed is anywhere close to deciding on a rate hike?         Andrew Freris:    What I am telling my clients is if the Fed does not hike this year, very possibly it would not hike next year either. So, I do not bother to look at it. Now if they hike, well I got it wrong but I do not think they will. So, moving forward, there are quite a lot of other very important things still in line. Of course, we still have Brexit, we still have the incredible poor shape of the Japanese economy and let us not ever say anything about statistical data on emerging markets.     The Japanese Statistical Authority got GDP growth not just wrong they got even on the wrong conclusion from it. The Japanese economy is doing basically poorly and the authorities are doing very little about it and guess as the Yen carries on strengthening as most of the other currencies. The Yen is strong because the expectations are that the prices of Japanese assets and in particular bonds will continue to go up, thereby causing a greater negative returns but that its irrelevant because I will be buying Japanese bonds because I expect that prices will increase and of course that the Yen will continue to strengthen. That is the reason why the yen is strong not because the US dollar is weak.        ET Now: In India. we of late have been fretting about the Indian bond prices and how they are moving up as well. But first of all, to this whole news flow that happened overnight China opening the doors to Shenzhen to get in more foreign investors, do you think a few people that we spoke to yesterday mentioned that this will help in increasing allocation EMs at large. I thought has not the allocation to EMs already opened up dramatically? So does this actually accelerate that wheel?         Andrew Freris:    The very limited success of the Hong Kong Shanghai open corridor does not augur well. It is very good that the Chinese authorities are continuing to lower capital controls. This is not an open floor. Just like in the case of Shanghai there will be limits as to how much it can be traded. S,o it is a good step okay but let us not get too excited about it.        ET Now: What is the view on India amidst all this uncertainty across the globe?         Andrew Freris:    I will take two separate points. I read through Prime Minister Modi's Independence speech which was very nice but I would have liked a huge emphasis to be placed on education, this has been pushed under the carpet. Everybody is over the moon about the goods and sales tax! For God's sake, that does not reform one sector of the Indian economy. Only it solidifies and unifies a part of the taxation system which is great! Does he do anything about the NPAs of the state banks? Does he do anything about the land reform and land use reform? No he does not. Does he do anything about labour market reform? No he does not. Does he do anything about greater competition and opening up to international competition in the wholesale and retail sector? No, he does not. Does he do anything really accelerating infrastructure investment? No, he does not. So, I am delighted but when I rethink that this is the most important economic reform in India this century I must admit either I am missing out something or as I do I laugh.  

