URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/mf-news/investors-can-now-apply-under-direct-plan-in-mutual-fund-scheme/articleshow/51535015.cms

Title : Investors can now apply under direct plan in mutual fund scheme - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : mutual funds,investments,invest

Date :  Mar 24, 2016, 03.24 AM IST

Document ID : 895

Content:
  Investors now have an option to apply under the direct plan in a mutual fund scheme. When an investment is made without the help of any distributor and the code of the distributor is not mentioned, the investment is said to be done in the direct plan of the mutual fund.    What is a direct plan?    Direct Plan is only for investors who invest in a scheme directly with the fund house. All open-end schemes of the mutual fund will have direct plans in addition to regular plans. NAV of the direct plan would be higher compared to a regular plan. However, the investment objective and investment mix of the scheme portfolio would be same for direct or regular plans.    Will the NAV of a regular plan and direct plan be different?    There would be a separate NAV (net asset value) for direct plans. The scheme would denote "direct" in its description at.    How can one invest in a direct plan?    Most AMCs have common application forms, irrespective of whether you wish to apply in a direct plan or regular plan. An investor should clearly indicate 'direct' in the ARN column of the application form. Investors can also apply in such plans through the mutual funds website or through online brokers who offer direct plans to investors.    Why are direct plans cheaper?    Direct plans work out to be cheaper than the regular plans as no distribution expenses, commission etc is charged to the direct plan of the respective openended scheme(s). Accordingly, the said plan shall have lower expense.    Who should invest in such direct plans of mutual fund schemes?    Direct plans in mutual funds may work well for investors who wish to invest directly without dealing with a broker or intermediary. In these direct plans, investors will have to do their own analysis, research and paperwork. Investors who invest in direct plans will have to take care of documentation process on their own which includes submission of mutual fund applications, tracking, portfolio consolidation, nominee inclusion or modification, KYC compliance, FATCA compliance and so on.    Can I switch my existing investments from a regular plan to a direct plan?    Investors can switch their existing investments in any scheme from a regular plan to a direct plan, by filling the requisite switch form. However, short-term or long-term capital gains tax will be applicable  

