URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/corporates-approach-towards-differently-abled-is-changing/articleshow/53679716.cms

Title : Corporates' approach towards differently-abled is changing - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Valeo India,Planet Abled,Indigo,Differently-abled,Autism at work

Date :  Aug 13, 2016, 05.45 AM IST

Document ID : 668

Content:
  How about having music, laughter, inspiring talks, and interesting activities all in a moving train?     Own the Rapid Metro like never before..."     Sounds fun?     Now add to this the fact that the day tour is truly accessible to everyone — the visually-challenged, hearing impaired and the wheelchair bound.    Planet Abled, a fledgling travel company started in January by a feisty 31-year-old woman determined to show the world to her differently-abled parents, is making vacations, heritage trips and food tours across India accessible.     Even as the government kick-starts Prime Minister Narendra Modi's flagship programme to make buildings, transport and websites accessible, Corporate India is thinking out-of-the-box to make workplaces and HR policy truly inclusive.     From a travel operator planning exclusively for differently abled to an automotive supplier employing speech and hearing impaired youth for packaging on the factory floor — companies are actively working towards accessibility.     ET takes a look at how they are making a difference.    A productivity high    For Valeo, a multinational automotive supplier based in France, it started as an experiment on inclusive workforce at its factory in Oragadam, Chennai.     The factory unit was plagued by large-scale absenteeism. The managers were constantly asking its HR department for manpower. The HR department just decided to hire the differently-abled as an experiment.     What started as a pilot project of hiring six speech and hearing impaired people in packaging on the shop floor has turned into a pan-India initiative for the company.     Result: dedicated employees who show better attendance and productivity.    Valeo India's national HR director Ramesh Sampath shared the experiment with ET.     "We were sceptical about this initiative. We did not know how this would be accepted by our employees and also by the union. We started with six speech and hearing impaired youth in packaging. The results were very encouraging. We saw within two months good productivity increase and they were 34 per cent more productive than our other employees observed for a period of 18 months. Chennai had massive rains in December 2015 but even then we had 86 per cent attendance from this group. They are our most dedicated employees."     The company gave the differently-abled employees radium jackets so that they could be identified from a distance in the noise in the factory. "The supervisors are so happy that they now demand more differently-abled employees as they don't find any difference with the disabled employees and in fact they find them more productive," Sampath says.     These are the "star" employees for the company. From youth with very low self-esteem who were accompanied by families on their first day at work to self-reliant individuals eking out a living, the differently-abled Valeo employees are visited by seniors from headquarters and even customers.    Own the planet    For Neha Arora, the idea of Planet Abled came out of a personal need to travel for a family vacation with her differently-abled parents. She and her sister struggled with travel options to take their wheelchair-bound mother and visually-impaired father.     After two years of research, Arora launched Planet Abled on January 1 this year. She leads a team of four to plan group tours, outstation vacations and customised packages for the differently-abled. "We work on the universal design concept.     We form a group of people taking everybody with different disabilities and frame the best path for them for a garden tour or a heritage walk. Each group is given a travel buddy, who is a volunteer. This buddy travels with the group explaining all aspects of the tour," says Arora. A training module has been prepared for volunteers and paid professionals to make them understand the kind of assistance a differently-abled could need on the tour. From accessible toilets to ramps and hotel rooms, Arora thinks of everything.     "We travel with portable ramp for our wheelchair bound travelers because not all places are accessible," explains Arora. The group gets gawking looks and rude comments everywhere but the former Adobe employee is unfazed.     "You have to ignore their insensitivity. It is the mindset of the people in India. But that comes from the fact that we don't see too many differentlyabled around. Once they come out of their homes and travel extensively, the general acceptance would also come about," says Arora.     Planet Abled is making a vast difference in many lives.     Bikash, a department of taxation official in the Assam government, gifted himself a solo vacation in Uttarakhand on his birthday.     "I went to Uttarakhand and visited the Corbett National Park, Rishikesh and Haridwar. I have always travelled with family but this time I did it all alone. Such travel companies are there in the US and Europe but not in India. It is so important for such concepts to be introduced here," says Bikash.    Inclusive example    SAP Labs emphasis on diversity and inclusion in workforce made it introduce the "Autism at Work" initiative in 2011.     But the company has travelled a long way on making an attempt to be all-inclusive. It has voluntarily undertaken access audit of all the office premises in Bengaluru and included the blueprint audit of the upcoming premises. After the access audit, SAP has made vast changes, including construction of ramps and enhancement of the existing ones across the main and common areas, Braille signage at all common areas and meeting rooms, guide strips for stairs and sufficient outdoor and indoor lighting for the night.     Kiran Venkataramanappa, who handles the inclusion pillar at SAP Labs India, says: "We have a very focused approach which is based on the belief that differently-abled come with special skills which can be leveraged in different manner. The push comes from the understanding of the business benefits of having a diverse workforce and is backed with good senior management support. We have intensive sensitisation workshops for all our employees."     SAP believes that diversity and inclusion in workplace brings a melange of ideas and cements a foundation for a vibrant culture. The company takes pride in the fact that it does not treat differently-abled employees differently.     "There is no difference in how we treat them. They are the same be it in setting goals, gauging their performance and salary hikes. They are not treated differently," says Venkataramanappa. The company has set an ambitious target of having 1 per cent of the workforce represented by people on the autism spectrum by 2020.     Meera Shenoy, founder of Youth4Jobs which trains underprivileged differently-abled youths, says: "Disability is treated as a curse in rural India. Differently-abled, especially girls, are kept hidden for the fear that other siblings would not get married. But with companies coming forward and employing differently-abled, they are able to make a dignified living."    I believe I can fly    Airline travel does not necessarily mean seamless travel for the differently-abled. But Indigo Airlines stands out. Disability rights activist and global chair of Disabled People's International Javed Abidi says: "IndiGo was the first airline to introduce ramps instead of step ladders to make enplaning and deplaning easier for passengers with disabilities. It has also been the first airline to employ people with disabilities for their operations."     Abidi, who is himself wheelchair bound. "It is a misconception that accessibility is expensive. There are an estimated 70-100 million persons with disability in India. Hence, it's a market that needs products and services."     Indigo has hired female helpers at airports to assist female passengers with disabilities. The airlines has dedicated check-in counters for passengers with disabilities. Its website has detailed information for passengers with disabilities and varied kinds of assistance which can be provided to them.     Their coaches are specially designed where the floor of the exit may be lowered to ensure safe and easy boarding for disabled passengers.     "We provide training to all employees on the various types of disabilities and the correct way of handling and asking questions. Annual refreshers are conducted through interactive workshops where staff gets to meet and are trained by some of the frequent fliers who have disabilities, says an Indigo spokesperson.  

