URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/obsolete-talent-pool-it-industrys-biggest-challenge-yet-and-what-they-are-doing-about-it/articleshow/53313802.cms

Title : Obsolete talent pool: IT industry's biggest challenge yet and what they are doing about it - The Economic Times



Date : Jul 21, 2016, 10.29 AM IST

Document ID : 196

Content:
IT firms opt for training providers like Simplilearn to skill up their workforce  What do you do with thousands of JavaScript programmers when your organization's future projects are in Big Data, analytics, digital marketing, data science, cloud computing and other next-gen technologies? This is the dilemma that leaders of all IT/ITes companies are facing today.  These next-gen technologies are extremely dynamic. What is cutting-edge today can be obsolete within six months. Yet leaders are optimistic about finding a solution to this problem through the age-old practice of employee training - but with a difference.  The Way out - Up-skilling & Continuous Learning  Companies have found that training programmes delivered by industry experts that provide their employees with relevant hands-on experience, have significantly boosted the productivity of their workforce.  As a consequence, organisations are now partnering with specialist training providers like Simplilearn, which focus on rigorous training in specific new-age technology verticals with an outcome oriented approach.  Vishal Sikka, CEO of Infosys, echoes this view. "Traditional IT companies are facing the same disruption that everybody else in the world is facing today", he said at the World Economic Forum this year. He went on to say "Educate people with the skills of tomorrow."  The concept of employee training is now assuming paramount importance, as it holds the key to adapting to new developments.  Almost every IT major concurs. N. Chandrasekaran, the CEO of TCS, has spoken about his plans to up-skill over 120,000 professionals in new digital skills in order to align the company's skillset to the needs of the future.  Bridging the Skills Gap with Innovative Learning Solutions  Referring to the challenges faced by the IT industry in terms of re-skilling their talent pool, Krishna Kumar, CEO Simplilearn, said: "The 6 major areas that are set to drive growth for the IT industry over the next decade are big data, data science, cloud computing, digital marketing, IT security and mobile. But there is a serious dearth of skilled talent in these domains. As a company that caters to both enterprise customers and individuals, we can already spot a huge trend of individuals learning \ skills that ensure better prospects for their career. Over the last few years, we have seen many IT companies accelerating plans for up-skilling parts of their workforce that possess only legacy skills. Outcome-oriented training from industry experts, with industry projects, labs and assessments can up-skill large teams rapidly and make sure they become well-versed in a new technology quickly."  Flexibility - A key driver in Training  Organisations are always on the look out to cut costs and improve their bottom line. With pressure to reduce training costs, traditional classroom models are no longer viable to train a diverse workforce. To address these challenges, training companies are delivering innovative learning solutions through online self-learning and live virtual classrooms. Simplilearn's Flexible Online Classroom model allows organisations to enroll their teams for specific training programmes and enables team members to attend the training session from anywhere, and at any time. Training models like these are enormous productivity hacks for enterprises which often find it extremely challenging to schedule separate training batches for large teams spread across multiple geographies and time zones.  The Case for Up-skilling - And What the Future Holds  From digital technologies and design thinking to leadership training, there is now a focus on equipping employees with technology skillsets that ensure scalability and continuous growth. Simplilearn has noticed a definite upswing in the number of firms which are embracing innovative online learning solutions in new-age disciplines. Krishna Kumar says, "We are partnering with some of the largest IT companies to actively support their employee training initiatives this year."  While managements might wonder about how exactly the investment into employee training translates to long-term profits, research has shown a marked correlation between investment in training and financial performance. According to a study by Bersin, high impact learning organisations enjoy profit growth that is three times that of their competitors. "The future will likely see more organisations across domains investing in these innovative learning solutions to adapt to new changes and remain industry relevant", adds Krishna.  

