URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/talentsprint-expands-leadership-team-with-three-new-appointments/articleshow/53540622.cms

Title : TalentSprint expands leadership team with three new appointments - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Youth,TalentSprint,Santanu Paul,Rupesh Sinha,Praveen Kumar,Nexus Venture Partners,leadership,Growth,Careers,appointment

Date :  Aug 04, 2016, 03.32 PM IST

Document ID : 683

Content:
  BENGALURU: Youth career accelerator TalentSprint has announced the appointment of three senior executives to augment its leadership team as it prepares for rapid growth, said a company statement.     The new senior executives, who will be based out of company's headquarters in Hyderabad, will contribute to the company's vision of accelerating the careers of one million youth in sectors such as information technology, banking, and education.     The newly appointed leadership members include Praveen Kumar (director, partner development), Rupesh Sinha (general manager, delivery operations), and Shuba Reddy (director, finance).     "Praveen, Rupesh and Shuba bring with them diverse experiences, skill sets, and critical knowledge that are key to our current growth plans. These appointments are in line with our strategy to continuously enhance and upgrade our leadership pipeline to take on new challenges," said Santanu Paul, MD and CEO of TalentSprint.     Praveen Kumar has seventeen years of experience in partner and channel development. With his prior experience with Usha International, TATA Tele Services, NIIT, Future Tree Learning, Everonn and MAGS Rural Education, he is expected to play a key role in building out a channel distribution strategy.     Rupesh Sinha has twenty years of experience in academic operations and has worked at IMS Learning and various educational startups. He will oversee delivery operations for the company's growing network of contact and experience centres.     Shuba Reddy is a chartered accountant with ten years of experience handling financial controls, audit, accounting and legal compliance functions. In her earlier assignments at Denty's, Global Health City, and Trivitron, she was responsible for formulating and implementing financial and operational procedures and management information systems.     TalentSprint is funded by Nexus Venture Partners and the National Skill Development Corporation, and aims to empower one million young job seekers to pursue careers in information technology, banking and financial services, and education. The platform delivers technology-enabled experiential learning through a mix of cloud, contact, and colleges.  

