URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/earn/how-to-manage-a-career-change/articleshow/53682635.cms

Title : How to manage a career change - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Management,Job,finance,ET Wealth,Cinematography,career

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 359

Content:
  Think you are stuck in the wrong job and your calling lies elsewhere? Learn from people who changed their career paths and made a success of it.     Remember Farhan Qureshi from 3 Idiots? The soft-spoken boy whose father's desire to see him become an engineer overrode his own wishes. That is the story of many Indian professionals, whose career trajectory is determined for them, even before they can fully understand the implications. While Qureshi was eventually able to follow his passion for wildlife photography, pressures and expectations from family and the need to bring home a regular paycheque compel many to stay in a field of work that they have no interest in whatsoever.     This forced continuation can give rise to frustration and rob the person of job satisfaction. If you find yourself in such a situation, the temptation to break away and pursue your passion might seem overwhelming. However, quitting your job to do what you've always wanted is not only a brave move, but also a serious financial risk. Here's what you can learn from those who took the plunge.    Do the ground work   Perhaps the most important step in undertaking a career switch is to understand the field you are planning to enter. Like many Indian students, Vishal Gandhi was encouraged to take up commerce at the graduation level. "My family wanted me to take up a safe profession like banking," he says. Gandhi went through his college years but yearned for what he really wanted to do: cinematography.          Vishal Gandhi, 26 Cinematographer, Mumbai        "One must do what he loves to, and be prepared to take a calculated risk to accomplish it."     The big switch   The commerce student sacrificed a corporate career to pursue his passion for cinema. Now he works as an independent freelance director of photography.     Following his graduation, he worked as an accounts supervisor in a garment manufacturing company, but the monotony of his job soon got to him. His big break came when he met a director of photography and worked as his apprentice for four months. Keen to learn more about this new-found vista, Gandhi went on to join a film school. "Initially my family was a little apprehensive about my choice as they did not know much about it, but they became supportive when they saw how dedicated I was," he says.     Although he dumped a corporate career, starting at 21 meant he didn't sacrifice much. While it took a while to break in, he eventually found his place in the industry. "I now work as an independent freelance director of photography and shoot TV commercials for different production houses," Gandhi says, "One must do what he loves and be prepared to take a calculated risk to accomplish it," he adds.    Follow your heart   Venturing off the beaten path is always a tough call, especially when social pressures push you in a certain direction. For Shweta Bhardwaj, it was a matter of defying stereotypes to choose her own path. Bhardwaj started out with an MCA degree and took up a technical content writing role at the start of her career.         Shweta Bhardwaj, 27 Astrologer, Delhi NCR        "It's not just about the money you make. You have to love the work you do. I never tire of my work."     The big switch   Starting out as a technical content writer, she was driven by her interest in the occult sciences to take up astrology and numerology as a profession.     However, while she had no complaints, it never truly gave her any job satisfaction. A keen interest in the occult sciences eventually led Bhardwaj to question her choice. Having learnt the basics of astrology from her aunt, she practiced casually on her colleagues, giving them free readings over coffee. But what started as a hobby soon became a more enduring passion, and Bhardwaj decided to take up astrology and numerology as a career. Although she didn't have her family's support initially, her husband's encouragement kept her on track.     For the first year or so, Bhardwaj struggled with clients who were reluctant to pay or insisted on having the fee lowered, but eventually she worked out a fixed fee system and switched to online consultations. This rather unusual and convenient channel has set her apart and won her a loyal client base. "It is not just about the money, you have to love the work you do," says Bhardwaj. "I never tire of my work," she adds. What worked for Bhardwaj was her sheer determination to take up something that is not considered a conventionally rewarding career, and persisting till she found success.    Cut your losses   Having studied electronics and marketing, Vikram Singh started out with what he thought was the most appropriate profession— a sales job, but things turned out differently. While he went on to become a communication specialist and joined Mettler Toledo as an assistant manager, he couldn't ignore his calling, which lay in embracing nature and adventure.         Vikram Singh, 32 Trek organiser, Mumbai        "Before you switch careers, do a detailed study to know what is in store."     The big switch   Despite having degrees in electronics and marketing, he quit his secure corporate job to start a self-funded startup Trek Mates India, which conducts treks.     After launching Trek Mates India in 2011, in partnership with Nilesh Patil, Singh held on to his job for a while, hoping to manage both. But as the venture grew larger, he had to take a call. "It was a big decision, so I carefully planned out how to manage all my family responsibilities, and finally quit my corporate job in 2014," he says. The most difficult consequence of Singh's decision was losing the assurance of a regular paycheque.     For most, this is the biggest hurdle to cross when it comes to making a career switch, especially if the alternative is launching an independent venture. While Singh's bid paid off, few can overcome this trepidation. Not only does a switch come with its own liabilities and expenses, it also means sacrificing additional benefits like health insurance and perks provided by an employer. If you find yourself contemplating quitting your job and making a major career switch, make sure you're comfortable with what you will be losing out on.    Play to your strengths   TimTim Sharma's career path had led her exactly where she wanted to be, but somehow, it just wasn't enough. Sharma knew early on that she wanted a high-flying corporate career, and that ambition led her to study business management and finance. For the first five years of her career, Sharma was worked as a financial analyst, followed by a sales role as account manager. But eventually, the monotony of her job and her passion for fitness motivated her to make the big switch.         TimTim Sharma, 32 Fitness consultant, Bengaluru        "The experience, learning and satisfaction of doing something you love is incomparable."     The big switch   A financial analyst by profession, she found her niche in the fitness industry as co-founder of Protons Sports & Fitness, and serves as consultant with NEB Sports.     Sharma is now co-founder of Protons Sports & Fitness. She also works as a consultant with NEB Sports. Protons provides training for endurance sports for beginners, athlete management services, conducts specialty sports events and consultancy services for clients. NEB Sports conducts marathons and running events across the country. While it was a radical change, Sharma's corporate experience helped her transition smoothly to an administrative role in her own venture. Using your prior experience to steer your new venture can be a great advantage. Singh concedes, "My corporate job gave me taste of work culture and helped me gain an idea about company operations."    Don't break the bank   Making a major change mid-career involves various financial risks. The absence of paycheques means putting all your responsibilities on hold, and might get in the way of paying off loans and mortgages, or achieving other financial goals. "Not only is there the opportunity cost of what you are walking away from, there are also no guarantees or promises of success. For every success story, there are at least a million unsuccessful ones," says Sharma.     While Sharma cut down on her expenses and lived with her parents to eke out enough to get by on, Bhardwaj and her husband had to borrow from friends to launch her venture. "It was a huge risk for us. It's never easy to sit at home when your career had been flourishing, and it's even worse when you can't find clients," she says. Gandhi relied on his saving from a previous job to put him through his training. However, Singh had to liquidate some of his savings and endure the anxieties of shouldering responsibilities while trying to manage a new venture. He recommends planning well in advance, and always having a back-up plan. A career switch can be an extremely positive move, but it's wise to hedge your bets and plan everything out before you dive head-first into a brand new field.  

