URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/india-inc-should-combine-sustainable-practices-with-long-term-business-profitability/articleshow/53735479.cms

Title : India Inc should combine sustainable practices with long term business profitability - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : united nations,Swachh Bharat,Sustainability,Market,Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry,India,environment,economy,CSR,Cities,Business

Date : Aug 17, 2016, 11.31 AM IST

Document ID : 654

Content:
  Indian corporate world is increasingly weaving the sustainability paradigm in its ethos. Business community has interpreted sustainability through its own commercial lens. It is a limited view of sustainability since it largely conforms to business interests.     A dynamic business environment in India as also the world over is constantly evolving with new realities and situations confronting the world. Indeed it is a highly challenging and competitive situation that Indian business is facing. So as to survive and compete, change becomes a constant reality. In its journey towards sustainable goals, Indian corporates are moving ahead. Many Indian companies claim to be spending resources on sustainability measures like afforestation, water conservation, renewable sources of energyetc.     The United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015. These SDGs spell out the development priorities for all countries after 2015. UN's post - 2015 Global Agenda has been expressed in the seventeen new goals that include reducing poverty and inequality, dealing with Climate Change, protecting ecosystems (oceans, forests and biodiversity) which translate further as energy goals. Effectively, increasing the use of Renewable sources of Energy are listed through the energy goals.     Sustainable business practices are often discussed in professional events. One such professional event organized by a noted Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry recently brought together a wide representation from the corporates, government and Non-Governmental Organisations to explore the meaning of sustainability in the Indian context. Undoubtedly, business today is aware that it needs to co-exist with a healthy natural environment. The bounties of nature have to be protected and conserved. So business practices must factor in the need to minimize the harmful effects on air, water and soil.     An important source of funds for sustainability is Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) allocations. The CSR norms for businesses require Companies with at least Rs.5 crore net profit or Rs. 1000 crore turnover or Rs.500 crore in net worth to spend at least 2 percent of their 3 year average annual net profit on CSR activities in each financial year. The government of India is serious about compliance with CSR. According to the Companies Act, 2013, disclosure of CSR spent by Companies has been made mandatory.     Corporates attempt to give back to society through their activities within CSR. There are umpteen cases of zero waste policy, water conservation and energy conservation in the corporate sector. The boundaries of sustainability may be stretched beyond CSR by collaborations that pool the CSR funds, collective implementation and monitoring of activities, innovation and technological development (for example Hybrid vehicles), public outreach and awareness, build synergy between the corporates and their stakeholders. The value addition by these measures is not only for the shareholders but also their stake holders.     This idea of shared value may expand the horizons of sustainability in the corporate sector. Business interests may be driven by win-win situations through pooling their CSR funds and collaborations. Corporate sector needs to partner with the government at different levels. There are a large number of government programmes like Clean Ganga, Swachh Bharat and Smart Cities that may benefit from private sector collaborations in achieving sustainable goals.     Investment and finance beyond CSR funds are needed for sustainability implementation across the corporate world. Commercial interests and profit-seeking are the basis of responsible investment. Companies that provide reports on sustainability have better access to capital. There are other benefits as well from sustainability reporting, for instance, improving reputation of companies in the market place and better retention of talent.     Several international NGOs are working on sustainability issues and are recommending framework for sustainability reporting. The underlying logic is that sustainable global economy should combine long term profitability with ethical behaviour, social justice and environmental care. This should be imbibed by the Indian corporates as well.    ( Purnima M. Gupta, ex-IAS, is an adviser in the Union Power Ministry) 

