URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/reclaiming-bharat-can-ads-brands-become-nationalistic-without-jingoism/articleshow/53615218.cms

Title : Reclaiming Bharat: Can ads & brands become nationalistic without jingoism? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Unilever,tv,So,risk,place,P,new,in,ex,Brexit,brands,ADS

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.20 AM IST

Document ID : 300

Content:
  In the mid to late 90s, desi denim brand Sunnex ran a campaign with the line 'Not Made in America. Thankfully'. Some ads struck an alarmist tone, for instance: 'If you were reading this on a New York street, you would be mugged by now.' While 'ahead of its time' is a phrase used by ad men to find excuses for a campaign that didn't work, there just might be some truth to it in this case. Especially for Sunnex, which when we last checked, was running a fairly vanilla campaign - both in its content and models' skin colour. There's no telling what a line like 'Not Made in America. Thankfully' may have done for the brand in 2016. A time when being national is at least as important as not being perceived as anti-national.     These tensions have started to manifest in the world of brands. Consider Patanjali which ends its print ads with a "humble request" to consumers and store owners alike: "Give prominence to Patanjali products in your shops as well as in your hearts...Together we can turn the SWADESHI dream of Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Ram Prasad Bismil into a reality." The ads have been remarkably combative; and Patanjali has been quick to proclaim a multinational conspiracy in some of them being pulled up before the ASCI. Acharya Balakrishna, managing director has said, "We are not part of ASCI and so I don't fall under their purview." Patanjali's Balakrishna believe ASCI "Is run by MNCs...All these years, they destroyed our culture through different types of advertisements. They are the complainants and also the judge."     Micromax's recent  Angrezipanti  ad features TV funny man Kapil Sharma. Except there's nothing particularly humorous about Sharma's tirade against linguistic snobbery. There are liberal references to the Prime Minister's penchant for speaking Hindi on his visits abroad and to countries like Japan, a global force to reckon with in spite of not being an English speaking nation. The ad drew its share of admirers and also a fair amount of flak from people who pointed out that the Indian mobile phone maker has Hugh Jackman on its roster and its recent Nuts, Guts, Glory film had all the racial diversity of a Ku Klux Klan rally. Shubajit Sen, CMO, Micromax however sees no contradiction and explains, "What binds the films together is the brand philosophy - we target consumers who punch above their weight, help them rise up and truly achieve their potential." Both ads are statements against prevailing attitudes of elitism and so not at all inconsistent. The latter ad is more in the area of national pride than outright jingoism, Sen adds.     Others argue it's hard for brands and advertising to completely embrace these sentiments. According to Santosh Desai, MD and CEO, Future Brands, "You may see nationalism seep into tonality but a lot of what brands do is posturing: both on the liberal and the nationalistic side." However this world simply has far less of a license to go all out. As Desai puts it, "There's no way a P&G; or a Unilever can get away with what Trump can get away with."     However as the Aamir Khan-Snapdeal episode, recently mentioned by no less than defence minister Manohar Parrikar in a recent speech proves, a brand need not even be the one making or endorsing a statement, for it to be affected. A stray comment from an endorser can quickly become a lightning rod for the brand and its messaging to be subsumed by a vigorous, angry Indian nationalism. The sort that one sees an increasing amount of in online commentary, on television news shows and in the sort of posts people choose to believe in, share or dismiss outright. Desai admits, "In India, there's a certain ultra-nationalistic fervour with the anti-national label bandied about with a frequency that's unprecedented, if you have anything to say that is not all pointing in the same direction in an exultant manner." While comparisons to the Trump phenomenon may be far-fetched given the essential difference in political systems between the countries, Desai adds, "Formal democracy is only a small part of Indian reality. The same broad pattern is seen in the hyperbolic reactions, the characterisation and dismissal of individuals depending on which side of the fence they are on and in the cheapening and coarsening of language."     Even brands that don't think they are playing this game are already in it, whether they like it or not. The choice is now whether they can (or ought to) try to control the narrative or live with the risk of extreme praise or blame, in spite of having done nothing to earn either.   

