URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/policy/sebi-allows-mfs-to-buy-housing-finance-bonds/articleshow/53639337.cms

Title : SEBI allows MFs to buy housing finance bonds - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Securities and Exchange Board of India,sebi,mutual funds,Gagan Banga,Amtek Auto

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 09.22 PM IST

Document ID : 482

Content:
  MUMBAI: Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has doubled the limit on permissible holding of bonds of housing finance companies by mutual funds as it aims to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi's promise of home for all.     "In light of the role of HFCs especially in affordable housing space, it has now been decided to increase additional exposure limits provided for HFCs in financial services sector from 5% to 10%," the capital market regulator said in a circular issued on Wednesday.     Earlier, SEBI put such a cap on sector investment exposures after a few companies including Amtek Auto had defaulted in interest payments, which affected some mutual funds running retail debt schemes.     But, it gave a special dispensation to housing finance companies, seen relatively robust segment with better prospect. Fund houses could invest additional 5% in excess of 25%, the regulatory cap for each sector.     "The revision in limits will enable a reduction in incremental cost of funds by 25-30bps," said Gagan Banga, vice chairman & managing director, Indiabulls Housing Finance. "We will look to utilise (the cost benefits) to both grow faster and also to pass on the benefit to our customers."     "HFCs already have 40% market share of the home loan market, and this move will enable market share to move higher," he said.     But, fund houses can only invest in bonds, rated AA or above. The latest move will also help make a lower rated papers more liquid in the secondary market. Typically triple-A rated bonds are the most liquid segment where buyers and sellers are mostly available.     Mutual Funds were mandated to ensure that total exposure of debt schemes in a particular sector shall not exceed 25% of the net assets of the scheme, said Sebi.  

