URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/fifteen-stocks-in-focus-in-friday-morning-trade/articleshow/52248511.cms

Title : Fifteen stocks in focus in Friday morning trade - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zydus Wellness,Yes Bank,Vijaya Bank,SREI Infrastructure,Reliance Power,Reliance communications,Reddy's Laboratories,Monsanto,ICICI bank,Hinduja Ventures,Havells India,Firstsource Solutions,Firstsource

Date :  May 13, 2016, 08.09 AM IST

Document ID : 942

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open lower on Friday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The Nifty50 now looks set for a re-test of 8,000 and has also now improved its trading trend substantially as it makes a move again towards the same. Support has been strong on moves towards 7850-7780 range which is an important pivot range in trading terms," Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Research, Centrum Wealth said in a report.     "Further gains are possible in the near term but a further momentum up is likely to only start once 8000 is breached," he added.    Here is a list of top fifteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Nestle India:  The company reported a 19 per cent decline in net profit for the first quarter ended March 31, as it continued to be weighed down by the ban on its flagship instant noodles Maggi.    Glenmark Pharmaceuticals:  The pharma major reported over 13-fold jump in consolidated net profit to Rs. 143.04 crore for the March quarter on the back of robust sales across all markets including the US, Europe and India.    ICICI Bank:  The lender has significantly reduced its equity stake in both these subsidiaries from 11.8 per cent at the end of March 31, 2010, to 4.8 per cent at the end of FY16, said a media report.    Bank of Maharashtra:  State-owned Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) posted a net loss of Rs 119.84 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2016 due to rise in bad loans.    Reliance Power:  The government has declined Anil Ambani-led Reliance Power's request to let it mortgage coal blocks attached to Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project ( UMPP) in Madhya Pradesh to lenders of the plant that include banks from the US, China and Singapore, official sources said.    Dr  Reddy's Laboratories Ltd:  India's second largest drugmaker Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd is bracing for another challenging year in its biggest market, the United States, where its business has been hurt by regulatory scrutiny and fewer new drug approvals.    MSCI rejig:  MSCI India index added Bajaj Finance, Havells India, Titan Company and Yes Bank to the list, while deleted Reliance Communications, REC, and United Breweries.    Sanofi India:  Sanofi is recalling some batches of its painkiller Combiflam in India after the country's drugs regulator found the lots were substandard, the French drugmaker's local unit (SANO.NS) said on Thursday, said a media report.    Vijaya Bank:  The bank reported a 26 per cent drop in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2016 at Rs. 71.31 crore on account of higher provisioning.    Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd: T  he company reported a 52 per cent jump in consolidated net profit of Rs 20.54 crore for the March quarter. It had reported consolidated net profit of Rs 13.47 crore during the corresponding quarter of 2014-15.    Hinduja Ventures Ltd:  HVL reported a decline of 20.30 per cent in standalone net profit to Rs 14.17 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2016.    Firstsource Solutions:  BPO firm Firstsource Solutions reported 28 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs 79.66 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2016.    Zydus Wellness:  The company reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 25.81 crore for the March quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 20.18 crore in the same period a year ago, Zydus Wellness said in a BSE filing.    Central Bank of India:  The bank informed BSE that the Board of Directors of the Bank allotted 7,15,04,945 equity shares to Government of India on preferential basis.    Talwalkars Better Value Fitness:  Fitness chain Talwalkars Better Value Fitness looks to raise up to Rs 125 crore through non convertible debentures (NCDs) to fund its expansion plans.    Monsanto India:  Germany's Bayer AG may be considering a bid for U.S. seed company Monsanto that would yield an even-larger international agricultural giant in a deal that could be worth as much as $65 billion, according to some estimates, said a media report.  

