URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/india-inc-creates-oral-history-to-preserve-legacy/articleshow/53612071.cms

Title : India Inc creates oral history to preserve legacy - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tata Sons,India Inc,Godrej group,Godrej,Cipla,Aditya Birla Group,Aditya Birla

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 11.33 AM IST

Document ID : 670

Content:
  Capture memories before they fade. In a nation where folk lore has enthralled people for centuries, oral history is marking its presence felt in the corporate world.     Indian business houses are archiving stories by recording recollections of employees who were part of historical moments.    Godrej Group and Cipla, for instance, are making attempts to preserve their legacy and of their iconic products which transformed the lives of many Indians, with oral accounts.     "Stories, anecdotes, corporate myths keep floating within the organisation and there is a great amount of this trans-generational knowledge that is informally being passed on to the next generation of employees. We want to keep history alive through oral memoirs so that people can continue to experience our DNA in any work that we take up in the future," said Pheroza Godrej, member, Godrej Archives, who is also an art historian and environmentalist.     There may be extensive written sources about a company but that may sometimes be not enough to reveal the inter-personal aspect of the group."There cannot be one narrow narrative of any organisation. Only oral histories will do justice to the blood, sweat and tears... that pave the way for the biggest successes of the company ," said Prabir Jha, global chief people officer, Cipla.     The oral tradition has faced suspicion and dismissive attitudes from historians until recently , said Robert Perks, the lead curator of oral history at the British Library . But its benefits are clear. "Oral history provides a better historical understanding of how businesses `tick'," Perks said in a lecture in Mumbai recently .     Gita Piramal, writer and business historian, said: "In India, my experience is that businesses -families or companies -don't archive history, let alone oral history. Of the very, very few printed histories around, the only really interesting ones are autobiographies. They have a particular lens, but at least the lens is authentic. The real challenge is to know and understand enough about the events under archiving to be able to ask the right questions."     Oral history interviews give an archivist the background to a company's milestone or an iconic product through first-hand accounts. Take the case of the Godrej typewriter: Its journey -from 1955 to 2009 --is fascinating and has touched many lives, including that of dealers and those running typing institutes, whose stories form part of the collective memory of the product. For the typewriter book project, the Godrej Group roped in an oral historian. "The typewriter world will soon be disappearing and these oral histories are an attempt to preserve them before they vanish into oblivion," said Pheroza.     Cipla too has undertaken the oral history project. Founded by Dr K A Hamied 80 years ago, the company has a unique place in the Indian pharma industry . "Cipla's story is in many ways the story of Indian pharma -its boom period from 1970 to 2000s, the zeitgeist, that certain sense of venturing bravely into the uncharted," Jha said.    Tata Sons is in the process of recording hundreds of hours of video footage for its Tata Heritage Project, which will celebrate its 150 years.The Bajaj group will soon launch an oral history initiative to archive memories through first-hand accounts, while the Aditya Birla Group has kicked off a project to record corporate folklores. Aditya Birla Group HR head Santrupt Misra said the objective is to capture the legacy of the organization by talking to retired officials. "We realize that there are many moments that have gone by and we need to capture what happened and why. It's important that younger people get a sense of history of the company ."     "Archiving is a serious and technical activity. It's best left to professionals. At the same time, the entire business family must be fully engaged in the process. Only they know what really happened. Finally, engaged owners will empower employees, who will then be able to share their knowledge with ease," Piramal added.  

