URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/ten-stocks-in-focus-on-wednesday-17-august-2016/articleshow/53733026.cms

Title : Ten stocks in focus on Wednesday, 17 August 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wipro,tayo rolls ltd,TAYO ROLLS,Tata Power Company,Sun Pharmaceutical Industries,Sun Pharma,State Bank Of India,OCL India,Greenply Industries,Cairn India,Bharti Airtel

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 08.03 AM IST

Document ID : 815

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open lower on Wednesday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The Nifty50 makes a bearish candle on Tuesday signifying profit booking in the near-term while long lower shadow validates bulls at lower end," Mustafa Nadeem, CEO, Epic Research Pvt. Ltd said.     "For past few weeks, broader range for Nifty50 has been moving in a range of 8,490- 8,780 levels while on Tuesday it managed to sustain above 8,600 levels on closing basis as bulls enter the market at lower levels to trade the range," he added.    Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Piramal Enterprises:  Ajay Piramal-promoted Piramal Enterprises said it has acquired United States-based Ash Stevens, a contract development and manufacturing company in an all-cash deal valued at nearly $43 million, in addition to an earn-out consideration capped at $10 million.    Cairn India:  British explorer Cairn Energy plc said it has initiated an international arbitration to seek $5.6 billion in compensation from the Indian government in case a retrospective tax demand of Rs 29,047 crore is not quashed.    IT stocks  will be in focus as the increase in short-term visa fees for professionals instituted by the US last December is likely to stay. Washington has informed New Delhi that reversing a decision that is part of its Omnibus Bill is not possible, said a media report.    Greenply Industries Ltd:  The company informed BSE that the QIP Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on August 16, 2016, approved the issue and allotment of 19,45,525 Equity Shares of face value of Re.1 each to qualified institutional buyers at the issue price of Rs.257 per Equity Share, aggregating to Rs. 49,99,99,925.    Sun Pharma:  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries today said Virtuous Finance, part of the promoter group has pledged one crore shares of the company amounting to 0.42 per cent stake to State Bank of India, said a media report.    Wipro  : Wipro on Tuesday said it has launched its Managed File Transfer as a Service (MFTaaS) platform on Microsoft Azure, said a media report.    Tata Power:  The Tata Power Company on Tuesday said its Singapore-based subsidiary, Tata Power International, has completed the sale for its 50 per cent stake in OTP Geothermal to KS Orka Renewables for $30 million.    Tata Motors  : Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P;) has raised its long-term corporate credit rating on Tata Motors to a better grade with less vulnerability of non payment based on the better performance of its British-arm Jaguar Land Rover (JLR).    OCL India:  The company reported 96.3 per cent YoY growth in the net profit to Rs 106 crore for the quarter ended June 30 compared with Rs 54 crore reported in the year-ago period.    Tayo Rolls Ltd:  The Board of Directors of Tayo Rolls Ltd at their meeting held on August 08, 2016 have decided, subject to the approval of the shareholders through Postal Ballot and e-voting, to allot 64,00,000 Lakh Redeemable Preference Shares of Rs. 100 each totaling to Rs. 64 crore to the promoters of the Company, namely Tata Steel Limited on preferential basis.    Bharti Airtel:  Indian telecom wars saw a broadside being fired by Reliance Jio Infocomm, which urged the regulator to take legal action against the country's top phone companies for violating licence terms by not providing enough interconnection points to allow calls originating from the Mukesh Ambani-owned operator's network to go through.  

