URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/plan/family-finances-increasing-equity-exposure-will-make-prasads-financial-journey-easier/articleshow/53682397.cms

Title : Family Finances: Increasing equity exposure will make Prasad’s financial journey easier - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : medical insurance,family finances,ETF,ET Wealth,EPF

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 366

Content:
  Theerta Prasad is on a learning curve. At 32, he may not have a big portfolio or a high net worth, but he has defined his goals, covered his risks with adequate life insurance and has started investing in mutual funds.     While he requires guidance on achieving the correct asset allocation and reaching his goals in the best possible manner, he should be on track with minor alterations to his investment pattern.     It helps that he is in government service since it reduces the financial burden of medical insurance and accommodation for him. Financial adviser Pankaaj Maalde will help Prasad by preparing a plan for him so that it can provide direction to him.    Existing financial status   Prasad is a central government employee working at Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan. He stays with his 29-year-old wife Priyanka, who is a homemaker, and the couple is planning a kid in about a year's time. Prasad brings in a monthly salary of Rs 70,000, of which Rs 21,667 goes in household expenses. Since Prasad has government accommodation, he doesn't have to pay rent. The other expenses include Rs 1,000 paid as insurance premium and Rs 5,000 given to Prasad's parents. He is also investing Rs 7,000 in mutual funds through SIPs and along with EPF contribution, the total investment comes to Rs 29,000. This leaves him with a surplus of Rs 13,333, which along with his existing investment will have to be put to judicious use to meet the goals.     Prasad's portfolio comprises 94% debt and only 6% equity. He has Rs 8 lakh in the EPF, Rs 50,000 as mutual fund corpus and holds Rs 40,000 as cash. His goals include building a continency corpus, save for the education and wedding of their future child, set up a retirement corpus, buy a house and take a vacation. While Prasad may not be able to fulfil all his goals at one go and may have to put off some till his income rises, he can start working towards his primary milestones. To start with, however, Maalde will consider his insurance needs and suggest changes, if needed.    Insurance portfolio   When it comes to life insurance, Prasad has bought a term plan worth Rs 1 crore, for which he is paying an annual premium of Rs 12,000. This cover is sufficient for his needs and Maalde doesn't suggest any more insurance for him. Since Priyanka doesn't work, she doesn't need any cover for now. As for health insurance, Prasad has not bought any independent plan.     He and his family are, however, covered by the government for life and don't need any surplus medical cover as of now. "Though I recommend the critical illness and accident disability covers, Prasad can do without these since he is covered under the government scheme," says Maalde. Hence, Prasad doesn't need to buy additional insurance and can start planning for his financial goals.    Road map for the future   To take care of eventualities, Prasad needs to have a contingency corpus that is equal to six months of his expenses. This will amount to Rs 1.68 lakh. To build this, Prasad can allocate his cash holding of Rs 40,000. He will also have to save his investible surplus of Rs 42,000 for three months to be able to build the required emergency fund. This amount should be invested in a shortterm debt fund for easy access and higher returns. This also means that Prasad will have to start investing for his other goals after three months.     To begin with, Prasad wants to save for the higher education expenses of his future child. He estimates that after 19 years, he will require Rs 60 lakh for the child's graduation. This can be built by starting an SIP of Rs 7,000 in an equity mutual fund for the specified time. For the post-graduation funding in 22 years, he has estimated a requirement of Rs 1.25 crore. Again, no existing resources have been allocated to this goal and Prasad is recommended to start an SIP of Rs 10,000 in an equity fund. At a rate of 13%, he will be able to accumulate the desired corpus in the given time.     Next, Prasad wants to build a corpus of Rs 1 crore for the wedding expenses of his child. To achieve this goal in the specified time frame, he will have to start an SIP of Rs 4,000 in an equity fund and Rs 1,000 in a gold ETF or gold bonds.     The next crucial goal for Prasad is retirement, for which he will need Rs 5 crore in 28 years, considering his current expenses and an inflation rate of 8%. Maalde has allocated his EPF corpus of Rs 8 lakh and mutual fund corpus of 50,000, which will combinedly yield Rs 1.97 crore. For the shortfall of Rs 3.03 crore, Prasad will have to start another SIP of Rs 10,000 in an equity fund. He is also advised to stop his additional contribution to the EPF and invest in equity to be able to get higher returns. Prasad also wants to buy a house worth Rs 50 lakh in five years.     While he will not be able to achieve this goal in the given time, he still has Rs 10,000 left over and can start investing this to accumulate the down payment for the house. He can put this sum in a balanced fund and it will grow to Rs 8 lakh in five years. At that point he can review his goal and take a decision. Finally, Prasad wants to take a vacation after 10 years, which will cost Rs 6 lakh in today's value. However, he is not left with any surplus after investing for other goals. Hence, he will have to wait for a sufficient rise in his income to be able to start investing for this goal.      (Financial plan by Pankaaj Maalde, Certified Financial Planner)  

