URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/staying-grounded-this-family-run-business-joins-fortune-500club-celebrates-with-simple-south-indian-meal/articleshow/53627113.cms

Title : Staying grounded: This family-run business joins Fortune 500
club, celebrates with simple south Indian meal - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Siddharth,Rajesh Mehta,Rajesh Exports,Prashant Mehta,no. 423,fortune 500

Date : Aug 10, 2016, 11.31 AM IST

Document ID : 272

Content:
  It's not a small achievement for a family run business to get into the coveted Fortune 500 company list. Recently, the Bengaluru jewellers Rajesh Exports made it to the select club at no. 423. To celebrate, Rajesh Mehta, the chairman of the company, and his extended family went for a meal. But not to a flashy restaurant. The grounded Mehtas ate at their unpretentious local favourite. "It was a long time since all of us came together as someone would be travelling or busy with something ," says Siddharth Mehta, Rajesh Mehta's son and the company's chief strategist. "We all ate a south Indian meal and it was fun. Rather than going to a fancy restaurant, we preferred this (the local eatery)."     Last year, the firm made news by acquiring Valcambi, the world's largest precious metals refinery, in an all-cash deal of $400 million. This year, they have earned a precious recognition. Their own celebration may have been modest. But the Mehtas are planning to throw a party for their friends and are on the lookout for a venue.    Landmark achievement   The news of the 500 list came as a surprise to his father and him, says Siddharth, who was in a meeting when a friend called him with a congratulatory wish. " I thought he was wishing me for the Forbes list, which mentioned us around nine months ago. So I laughed it off and told him that he had made a mistake," Siddharth says. But more messages started pouring in and when he reached office, his father confirmed the news. " It's a bucket list kind of thing to make it to the list," Siddharth says. "When my father (Rajesh Mehta) told me, he was emotional."     Describing the mention in the 500 list as "the biggest landmark" the company had reached till now, Siddharth felt they had to keep up the momentum. "We used to work 14-15 hours a day, now I don't know where I am going to get that energy to fit in two extra hours," he says in jest. After making it to the list, the family held a meeting to mull the future. "My dad and uncle (Prashant Mehta) had lot to say to the next generation. They wanted us to ensure that the company gains the same kind of respectability as our companions like Google and Microsoft, who were also in the list," says Siddharth.    Inspirations from the 500 list   The next landmark is to move up the rankings. Siddharth takes inspiration from one company in the top 10 — Berkshire Hathaway. "Warren Buffett is an inspiration for his simplicity and down-to-earth attitude. We tend to follow his company's culture," he says.  

