URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/just-let-it-fly-pickup-in-loan-demand-to-catalyse-growth-across-sectors/articleshow/53733272.cms

Title : Just let it fly: Pickup in loan demand to catalyse growth across sectors - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,PSU lenders,loan growth,bankers,Arundhati Bhattacharya

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 08.29 AM IST

Document ID : 814

Content:
  MUMBAI: The gloom over new investments may just be coming to an end. It is not wishful thinking of someone in the government, but based on the ground realities.    State Bank of India chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya, for the first time in more than a year, is signalling end of drought in project financing. The optimism is emerging in way that the biggest lender in the country may have to soon raise its forecast of loan demand.     "There are some new projects coming in and we could see credit growth of upwards of 12%," Bhattacharya told reporters.     Bhattacharya's optimism comes amid a pall of gloom among bankers who say that there have been no big projects in the past two to three years which has led to a collapse in demand for loans. Loan growth from manufacturing and services are growing at a five-decade low and are in single digits.     Although earnings from banks in the immediate past were disappointing, State Bank of India was the only one which topped market expectations from the PSU lenders' pack despite reporting a fall in its net profit.     "We had said that the worst is behind us with the last quarter but obviously it will not get shut off like a tap it will slowly recede," Bhattacharya had said. "The improvement will happen gradually.''     The Index of Industrial Production recorded a growth of 2.1% year-on-year in June, though anaemic, up from 1.1% in May, and is the highest this calendar year. RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan also echoed the positive sentiments.     "Even though bankers are very risk averse today, and few projects are coming up for financing, this will change soon," Rajan said. "Bankers will remember the period of irrational exuberance in 2007-2008 when they lent without asking too many questions. I am hopeful that this time will be different."  

