URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/mf-news/some-sips-few-sighs-bumpy-start-for-new-clearing-system/articleshow/53311210.cms

Title : Some SIPs, few Sighs: Bumpy start for new clearing system - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SIPs,Nach,mutual funds,Electronic Clearing Service

Date :  Jul 21, 2016, 04.34 AM IST

Document ID : 873

Content:
  MUMBAI: Systematic investments plans (SIPs) of mutual funds are facing hiccups following the implementation of new NACH (National Automated Clearing House) system in April. All new SIPs have moved from Electronic clearing service (ECS) mandates to NACH mandates since April this year. As per the rules, all new SIPs have to be registered through the NACH mode only.     Typically, a first-time customer fills an application form and a NACH mandate which is a request to the bank to debit his SIP instalment every month. The form is then sent by the fund house to the investor's bank to register his SIP. Distributors said the SIPs done through nationalised banks are facing the biggest issues in the new system. "Many nationalised banks are delaying registration of SIP mandate approvals.     They are not transferring funds to the fund house account on the required day, which leads to many investors complaint of having missed their first instalment," says Rupesh Bhansali, head (distribution), GEPL Capital. This leads to a lot of confusion amongst investors. Distributors fear these operational hassles will put off many firsttime investors who have just started investing in equities through mutual funds.     "Most fund houses allot units on the day of the SIP. When banks don't give them payment, they reverse the allotted units. This puts off first-time investors who have money lying in their accounts," says Amol Joshi, Founder Plan Rupee. In addition, some banks are also charging for NACH registration, something which did not happen when the erstwhile ECS mandates were registered.     Also forms for NACH have been changed thrice in a span of four months, which has added to the confusion. Many investors have old forms. If he happens to submit this form, his SIP is liable to be rejected.     Also though NACH was supposed to cut the registration time to 10 days from 30 days earlier; it still takes 30 days for SIP to be registered. In NACH investors can also register a mandate for a higher amount. So if a SIP is for Rs 10,000 a month, investors can register a onetime mandate for Rs 2 lakhs as well, so that he can top up his SIP or start more SIPs with the fund house, with filling further mandates.  

