URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/after-jp-morgan-crisis-sebi-set-to-change-the-way-mutual-funds-invest-in-bonds/articleshow/50475188.cms

Title : After JP Morgan crisis, Sebi set to change the way mutual funds invest in bonds - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : sebi,mutual funds,JP Morgan,housing finance,finance,capital market

Date :  Jan 07, 2016, 04.00 AM IST

Document ID : 858

Content:
  MUMBAI: Securities and Exchange Board of India is set to come out with sweeping changes in the way mutual funds invest in bonds following the recent crisis at JP Morgan Asset Management Company.     The capital market regulator, in a board meeting on January 11, will mull tightening of investment rules for domestic asset managers in the debt market. It will also discuss proposals such as listing of green bonds, foreign investment in infrastructure companies, exit opportunities to dissenting shareholders and an electronic price discovery platform for private debt placements.    Sebi is likely to reduce sector exposure limits of debt schemes to 25% from current 30%. In the case of housing finance companies, the cap is an additional 10%. Now, the regulator plans to trim this to 5%.     Also, fund houses will not be able to invest more than 10% of a scheme's corpus in debt securities of a single company. Now, this limit is 15%.     "Within the current restrictions, the potential for absolute amount of exposure to a single issuer has increased significantly. Also such high levels of exposure pose serious concerns in the wake of recent credit downgrades," said a top Sebi official.     Following the recent ratings downgrade of bonds and references of companies to CDR (corporate debt restructuring) the regulator is reviewing exposure limits of mutual funds at three levels: issuer, group and sector. This is aimed at providing a sufficient spread of risk through diversification of the investment portfolio.     Sebi also feels it is time to tighten the rules as it had introduced the single issuer limits in 1996.     "A reactive regulatory change will not be helpful. Sebi was prompted to act to reduce the risk but the fundamental risk can't be reduced which is the asset liability mismatch," said Dhirendra Kumar, CEO of New Delhi-based mutual fund tracker Value Research.     Fund houses may need to disclose more if they plan to restrict redemptions like in the case of JP Morgan Asset Management, which imposed limits on redemptions last year following the delay in repayment by Amtek Auto Limited.     "Restrictions on redemption should be applied by fund houses only as a last resort. Only, if they are impacted by macro factors not because of poor investment decisions by fund managers or else the purpose of having an open-ended scheme gets defeated," the Sebi official said.     The regulator also plan to fine-tune the laws related to fund houses' right to limit redemptions. Sebi feels these disclosures are not very specific and do not mention the circumstances under which redemption restrictions would be applicable.    OTHER PROPOSALS    The Sebi board will consider the proposal on providing exit opportunity to dissenting shareholders if they do not agree to the change in objects of the company,in line with the provisions of the Companies Act.     The board may also clear the proposal on listing of green bonds after considering the public comments.     The regulator had said issuance of green bonds in India does not require any amendment to the existing Sebi regulations for issuance of corporate bonds. However, for designating an issue of corporate bonds as green bonds, an issuer would have to provide additional information in the offer document, in addition to the compliance with the current requirements, the Sebi proposals had said.     The regulator is also considering to introduce an electronic platform for private placement of debt securities to improve transparency of the price discovery mechanism and also reduce the cost and time for such issuance. These issues are usually sold over phone.  

