URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/investor-base-will-grow-if-investing-is-made-easy/articleshow/53569413.cms

Title : Investor base will grow if investing is made easy - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : PPF,pan,KYC,investors,ET Wealth,AADHAAR

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 384

Content:
  Investors make up a small percentage of India's population. One wonders how so many use mobile phones, shop online, make trips to exotic destinations, yet refuse to make investment choices, saying that they are complex, technical and cumbersome. It's not that every buyer of a mobile connection understands all data plans before making a choice. It is just that it's easy to activate and get going. Operational difficulties in implementing an investment decision are hurdles in the way of expanding the investor base. What should be the basic reforms to help investors?     First, stop fretting about the KYC (know your customer) norms at every step of the way. With the PAN and Aadhaar card, individuals have established both tax status and identity. Once they have a bank account, they are customers of a regulated and organised financial entity. A bank is well equipped to verify, acquire, maintain and manage customers. KYC is superfluous as long as funds are being routed from and to bank accounts. Yes, this will stop the practice of depositing cash in the post office or buying insurance policies with cash. And those without PAN can't invest. But that is how it should be. We have to streamline processes that have been initiated, without systematically undoing them with exceptions.     There is no justification for repeatedly harassing people who simply want to make their money available to a system that is starved of capital anyway. The right tracking systems, MIS and intelligence are what the government and regulators need to set up, to prevent money laundering and other misuse of cash and identity. It can all be efficiently done by the banks, at source. These processes should not result in gatekeeping at every financial institution that asks for the same paperwork. Much like the multiple points at the airport, where different sets of people check the baggage tag of the passengers, these processes are superfluous, costly and downright stupid. They also undermine the unique objective of the security checkpoint to ensure that only screened bags and people get to the boarding gates.     Second, introduce standard identification for the product too. So many of us do not know if the company we bought shares in still exists; whether the mutual fund we bought changed its name; if the bond we bought has been redeemed; or whether the PPF account has matured. While the investor has to prove her identity each time, and remember the signature she put on a form several years ago, the trails of the financial products she bought can simply vanish. A financial product has a unique identity and features, which are components of the master records created in every operations department of each financial entity. But the investor does not benefit from the systems.     A product registry that identifies a product by its unique features should not be difficult to create. Depositories have done it for listed securities; mutual funds have it for their products and insurance companies, including state-owned ones, have powerful internal systems that will retrieve records with ease. It is just that an investor trying to find out the maturity date of a bond he has misplaced has to run to the branch in person, re-establish his identity and make multiple trips to retrieve money that is his, despite the fact that it might have been used without interest if it was past maturity date.     What does it take to impose a product master specification on everyone who wants the investor's money? What does it take to make this system free and accessible so it can be accessed, queried and searched by anyone looking for information about any product? How difficult can it be to standardise data fields? Fines for not updating these records should be imposed on issuers of financial products and should be added to the investor education fund, which is currently financed by investors who failed to collect their interest, dividends and maturity amounts since they misplaced the papers or forgot about their money.     Third, an entity such as the depository should bring both sets of data together, across service providers and maintain them in a secure environment. If investors can be identified with their PAN, Aadhaar and bank accounts, and if products can be identified with their unique features, it should be possible to bring these two sets of data together and provide secure online access to investors. They can then query, collate, consolidate or simply find their investments. Alternatively, create a standard report format that provides the data they need on a periodic basis. The onus of accurate record-keeping, servicing and reporting should be on the entity that is using the money.     Imagine securely accessing the depository, providing log-in credentials and getting a complete list of all investments, insurance policies and bank accounts with date and amounts invested, current value and maturity date where applicable. Imagine the joy of knowing where your money is, and what it is worth. If the process is easy and control is complete, investors will see financial markets as accessible and easy to deal with.     The problem is that we always see the marketplace as one that holds diverse entities such as banks, insurance companies, listed entities and mutual funds. We argue that each is regulated by a different entity and a different structure. What we fail to see is that in the same marketplace, on the all-important supply side are several unique entities, the investors, simultaneously holding bank deposits, insurance policies, mutual funds, equity shares and bonds. Why should the design favour the demand side?     Most investors don't have the time or energy to manage multiple service providers and their rules and service conditions. The financial lives of millions would be simpler if they did not have to deal with multiple entities, keep records, track stuff and manage paperwork. Simplification is a tough task. It requires empathy for the end user and complete clarity of purpose. In a country that supplies top class software professionals to the world to solve big data problems, isn't this a simpler problem to fix?     (The author is Chairperson, Centre for Investment Education and Learning)  

