URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/tcl-562-impresses-in-almost-every-department/articleshow/53731590.cms

Title : TCL 562 impresses in almost every department - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Videos,US,TCL 562,TCL,switching,Speed,Smartphone,product,premium,portfolio,News,Market,India,in,budget

Date : Aug 17, 2016, 08.34 AM IST

Document ID : 400

Content:
  TCL recently launched a budget Android smartphone in India. A month later, the company has expanded its product portfolio with the launch of Televisions and a second smartphone: TCL 562.     This is the company's first smartphone with a fingerprint scanner — something that is becoming more popular in the 10k space. While most other smartphones in this price range feature a fingerprint scanner on the back, TCL 562 has a fingerprint scanner embedded in the home button in front. Setting up the fingerprint scanner was very easy — scan your finger through the setup process and you are done.     This is a welcome departure from the usual setup process that asks you to scan a finger multiple times, then scan edges for better recognition through multiple attempts. The fingerprint scanner is one of the best we have seen on any device, irrespective of price. It had no issues recognizing the fingerprint from any orientation and it is one of the only phones that managed to recognize the fingerprint 10 out of 10 times correctly. Two thumbs up to TCL for this feature.     It weighs 150 grams and is 7.9mm slim with a curved back that is comfortable to hold. The removable rear panel has a brushed metal finish that gives the phone a unibody look. Underneath it is the non-removable battery, dual SIM slots and a microSD slot for storage expansion — we used a 32GB card with the phone and it worked without any issues. Power and volume buttons are placed on the right side and while the buttons appear to be metal, they are actually plastic. What we did not like was the placement of the power button above the volume keys — this makes it difficult to use comfortably with one hand.        The front is a single piece of glass with a chrome speaker grill and a chrome ring around the home button — this minimalist design gives the phone a premium appearance. You get a 5.5-inch IPS display with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels.     The screen offers rich colour and has wide viewing angles but brightness levels are not as good as we would have liked. Obviously, this makes things harder to see under direct sunlight. Under the display is the hardware home button and capacitive buttons for back and recent — both of them are backlit (this is something that many budget phones skip).     Hardware includes an octacore Mediatek Helio P10 processor with 3GB RAM and 32GB storage — this is good enough for most users. We had no issues playing games like Dead Trigger 2, Asphalt Nitro and NOVA 3.     Playback of full HD videos was no problem. Day-to-day performance is also impressive — navigation is zippy and switching between running apps is seamless. On a full charge, the phone managed to last from 9 am to 9pm regularly with average to heavy usage — you will have to charge the phone everyday which is usual for most phones nowadays.     It comes with TCL's customized UI based on Android 6.0. The interface is similar to stock Android with a few enhancements and handy tweaks. The first panel on the home screen shows TCL Stream — a scrollable widgets page with weather, news, wallpapers and playlist suggestions (you can choose it you want it to update automatically when connected to WiFi). You also get support for themes with a colour catcher feature: capture a colour using the phone's camera and it will automatically change the theme colours to match it.     The camera is the weakest link in the device even though it has fast shutter speed and quick focus lock. The front camera suffers from excessive noise and is good enough only in bright daylight. There is a front LED for selfies but despite this, images have soft details. The primary camera is a 13MP unit with phase detection autofocus and it manages to take good images in daylight as well as indoors.     However, it suffers from aggressive post processing — images have lots of noise on close inspection. We hope TCL fixes this with a software update in the future.     The first smartphone of the company, TCL 560, did not feel up to the mark to us considering the aggressive Indian market. However, the second device, the TCL 562 impresses in almost every department apart from camera quality.     The phone delivers great performance, best-in-class front fingerprint sensor and good battery life in a stylish design. If you are looking for a phone in the sub-`12,000 price segment, the TCL 562 is worth considering. For about the same price, you can also look at the Xiaomi Redmi Note 3 (full metal unibody design with a bigger battery life) or the LeEco Le 2 (also metal unibody and a year of free AV content).  

