URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/hr-leadership/leadership/ex-yahoo-executive-khilan-haria-joins-treebo-as-head-of-product/articleshow/53738026.cms

Title : Ex-Yahoo executive Khilan Haria joins Treebo as head of product - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Treebo Group of Hotels,Treebo,Sidharth Gupta,National Institute of Technology Durgapur,Khilan Haria,Indian School of Business Hyderabad

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 02.25 PM IST

Document ID : 761

Content:
  BENGALURU: Bengaluru-based chain of technology-enabled budget hotels Treebo Group of Hotels has appointed former Yahoo executive Khilan Haria as head of product, said a company statement. Treebo     Prior to joining Treebo, Haria was working as head of product at Teabox, a vertical e-commerce company focused on premium tea. Haria has also worked at Yahoo India for three years, where he led the company's flagship e-commerce platform, Yahoo Stores, which hosted 40,000+ online sellers and processed $3B+ in yearly sales.     "Treebo is a 'digital hotel'. We work with the heart of a hotelier, and the mind of an engineer. Building cutting-edge technology products is core to our success as a pioneering budget hotel brand. Therefore, we are excited to welcome Haria into our team. His vast experience in building industry-defining products will be a huge asset for us in accomplishing this objective," said Sidharth Gupta, co-founder of the company.     Haria is an alumnus of Indian School of Business Hyderabad and National Institute of Technology Durgapur. He started his career in engineering at Cisco Systems and also worked as a product manager at Taggle, a group-buying startup in 2011.     "There is a huge opportunity to use technology to revolutionise the hospitality industry. This space hasn't seen as much innovation as some other spaces like retailing, food delivery, taxi, etc. I am excited about working with the stellar team at Treebo to build some such game-changing products," said Haria on his appointment.     Treebo recently raised $17 million in a fresh round of funding from Bertelsmann India, Matrix Partners, and SAIF Partners. Hiring experienced technology and product professionals is part of the company's effort to use these fresh funds for strengthening their technology leadership in this space. Treebo Hotels has a network of 125 hotels in 25 cities.  

