URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/10-attributes-of-great-investors-what-it-really-takes-to-make-money-in-market/articleshow/53781038.cms

Title : 10 attributes of great investors: What it really takes to make money in market - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,test,science,Scalability,risk,Retail,opinion,open,new,mutual fund,Market,Mahindra,Kotak Mahindra,in,health,environment,Confirmation bias,cash flow,Business,Alpha

Date : Aug 20, 2016, 02.13 PM IST

Document ID : 446

Content:
 By Nilesh Shah    As an investment professional with more than 25 years of experience (and with learnings from mistakes made in the market), I have come to recognise that there is no substitute for continuous learning, critical thinking and inherent curiosity to discover value in the market.     This is true even in a time and age where tele-connectivity has brought the world closer and made knowledge more accessible. In fact, the changing environment has imposed higher demands on the existing theories to adapt to new conditions. Having said that, some principles and fundamentals have remained unchallenged.     I happened to read an insightful report by Credit Suisse, "Reflections on the 10 attributes of great investors" a couple of weeks ago. I thought of sharing some of the interesting notes this time around.     One thing that I came to certainly agree as a basic requirement is that you must have an aptitude for numbers. Accounting is the language of business. While it is not a complex science, it can be intimidating to a novice. The idea is that you must be able to read a company's health, strategy and 'economic value' by looking at its numbers. At the very least, one must be able to ascertain the free cash flow generated by the business and its capability to sustain itself.     Another important takeaway is that an investor must know how the business makes money; and whether there is a sustainable competitive advantage in it. Many successful businesses choose to do things differently despite the orthodox thought process suggesting otherwise.     These advantages provide such innovative companies with a strong defence against competition. This, in turn, provides scalability and longevity to the business.     The ability to compare and contrast assets and the value they hold therein is another quality that an investor is advised to develop. It is necessary that an investor/fund manager develops an opinion and perception about certain businesses or companies. But that opinion/perception must be thoroughly challenged in the light of relevant data. It is easy for a confirmation bias to creep in. Comparing and contrasting the belief actively and with an open mind allows investors to update the views and lets the belief stand to true test. The outcome of this practice leads to actionable intelligence. This, in turn, allows for mental flexibility and a relatively sharper world view; or what Warren Buffet calls 'moat' to the business.     Such perceptiveness in turn leads to appreciation of risk and the relative reward associated with it. A successful investor is well apprised of the actual cost, the opportunity cost and the potential gain that one may achieve through an investment. This way, an investor is able to modulate or await the opportunity to improve the odds of gain. Many may call it as timing the market. But in my opinion, it is only waiting for the opportune moment where the value is revealed, and it is more than the cost/potential loss in acquisition.     There are many more technical skills and experiences that go into making an adept fund manager/investor. Indian investing experience and the relatively lower depth in the market implies that the investment potential is still huge in the domestic market. The creation of long-term superior alpha would be possible only through a disciplined approach that allows for individual ingenuity, which erodes various biases and erroneous beliefs.     My personal suggestion is that unless a retail investor has the time and intellectual curiosity to develop these skills, they should invest through the mutual fund route and let the competition, the skill and the perseverance deliver the investment goals.    (Nilesh Shah, MD of Kotak Mahindra Asset, analyses trends of the mutual fund industry and the broader market besides commenting on policy issues in this fortnightly column. Views expressed in this article are his own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com) 

