URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/loreal-founders-factory-to-co-create-new-companies-from-scratch-every-year/articleshow/53506441.cms

Title : L'Oreal & Founders Factory to co-create new companies from scratch every year - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Startups,silicon valley,L'Oreal,Jean-Paul Agon,founders factory,fmcg

Date :  Aug 13, 2016, 07.18 PM IST

Document ID : 298

Content:
  NYX Professional Makeup, the LA-born brand that LOreal acquired in 2014 recently hit Indian shores as the first make-up brand to be launched online. It's in sync with the French cosmetic major's digital journey, as enunciated by global CEO Jean-Paul Agon in the transformative power of digital for beauty. The beauty major was one of the first companies in the FMCG space to name a global chief digital officer in Lubomira Rochet (in 2014) when the designation was just about gaining credence.     Realising the need to connect to a global ecosystem of world-class startups and entrepreneurs operating in the field of beauty, the company follows a 2-pronged approach. Recently it invested in Founders Factory, a global multi-sector digital accelerator and incubator based in London. Together, L'Oreal and Founders Factory, have plans to invest and scale five early stage startups and co-create two new companies from scratch every year.     The company also has its in-house tech incubator based in Silicon Valley that, as per reports, combines a startup-like, fast-paced environment with large organisation resources to collaborate with top universities and startups in California. There have been a number of game changing digital services spearheaded such as the famed Makeup Genius, a virtual coach that has revolutionised the make-up experience. It offers an instant makeover, recognising the customer's facial characteristics to ensure a virtual makeup application experience. It has been downloaded 20 million times across the world.     Another innovation is the Lancome beauty advisor app that scans a client's facial skin tone, processes the data, post which the formula is blended at the counter and the shade number is handwritten on the bottle for easy reference upon refill for personalised foundation. As a part of the digital-pipeline, the cosmetics giant has launched the My UV patch, the first-ever stretchable skin sensor designed to monitor UV exposure and help consumers educate themselves about sun protection.     Elaborating on the investments in startups, Lubomira Rochet, chief digital officer and member of L'Oreal's Executive Committee, said, "This strategic investment gives us direct access to a powerful global ecosystem of exciting startups and innovative technologies, allowing us to invest in and nurture innovative business models based on digital platforms." With 45 billion views on YouTube per year on beauty, it is the third most searched for category on Google and there is an obvious sense of urgency within the company to engage with the always-on-digital consumer.  

