URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/17-high-beta-stocks-that-more-than-doubled-your-wealth-in-last-1-year/articleshow/52774670.cms

Title : 17 high-beta stocks that more than doubled your wealth in last 1 year - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SpiceJet,Rajesh Exports,ONGC,Jet Airways,Indiabulls Real Estate,Himatsingka,GHCL,Gayatri Projects,Dishman,Cipla,CIL,BHEL,Balrampur Chini,8K Miles

Date :  Jun 16, 2016, 10.57 AM IST

Document ID : 922

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Making money in the stock market is never easy, but it has been probably the toughest over the past one year.     Yet, over a dozen stocks from the S&P; BSE500 pack have doubled investor wealth over the past 12 months. All of them have one thing in common; they are all high-beta stocks.     The S&P; BSE Sensex has lost a little over 5 per cent since last June, but 17 high-beta stocks more than doubled investor wealth in the same period.     The S&P; BSE Sensex fell 5.2 per cent from the 27,848 hit on June 1, 2015 to 26,396 on June 13, 2016. The fall in the index was led by losses in double digits in the shares of BHEL, Adani Ports, ONGC, CIL, SBI and Cipla.     The high-beta stocks that have outperformed the Sensex and Nifty over the past one year include SpiceJet, Himatsingka, Balrampur Chini, Gayatri Projects, 8K Miles, GHCL, Indiabulls Real Estate, Dishman Pharma, Rajesh Exports and Jet Airways, among others.     'Beta' represents the inherent risk profile of a stock and how it responds to different market conditions. It is measured by dividing the covariance of the return of an asset and that of the benchmark, with the variance of the return of the benchmark over a certain period.     The beta of the market is usually one and the general rule is that if a stock has a beta of more than one, it is considered riskier but has the potential to provide better returns in good times.       Should you hold high-beta names?    The domestic market is attractively priced to reap the benefits of a higher economic growth rate, which is likely to hit 8 per cent this financial year.     In this scenario, companies from the midcap and smallcap segments are likely to remain on investor radar in anticipation of higher earnings growth. Midcap and smallcap stocks are good proxies to play the economic growth.     "In the present scenario, where the market trend is bullish for the medium to long term and it has limited downside potential compared, it will be prudent for investors to hold existing high-beta names in their portfolios," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research, told ETMarkets.com.     "Earnings growth is likely to improve and it seems the economic downturn cycle is behind us. High-beta stocks can provide exceptional returns over the long term," he said.    Should 'Beta' be only criteria?    Beta is just one of the factors investors should look at before picking stocks. Beta gives a measure of risk or volatility. A high beta does not necessarily mean high risk. Most stocks that are in growth phase would also have a high beta.     Ideally, investors should use other parameters such as return on equity (ROE), growth rate, debt levels or leverage, order book and profit margins to shortlist their pool of stocks.     There have been several lower market-cap companies, which have seen a lot of action in the last one year even when the broader market has remained flat.     "High beta names which are fundamentally strong and have positive growth triggers can be good bets to hold at current levels. Low liquidity in such stocks makes a good reason to hold such companies," Pankaj Karde, senior VP and head institutional sales research at Systematix Shares & Stocks (I), told ETMarkets.com.     "The market has matured and has seen large funds buying and holding fundamentally strong stocks. Stocks that have rallied on just news and speculation should be avoided," he said.    

