URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/mutual-fund-queries-answered-by-prakash-lohana-cfp-ascent-financial-solutions/articleshow/52831644.cms

Title : Mutual Fund queries answered by Prakash Lohana, CFP, Ascent Financial Solutions - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SIP,portfolio,mutual funds,equity funds,debt fund

Date : Jun 20, 2016, 02.57 PM IST

Document ID : 844

Content:
 Q: I plan to invest Rs 10000 every month in mutual funds via SIP. Can you please let me know if the below funds with Rs 2000 per month are good. My investment horizon is around 5 years. The funds i am considering are SBI Blue Chip, DSP Blackrock Micro Cap, UTI MNC, Canara Robeco Emerging Equities and Franklin India Opportunities. Also let me know if it's better to have one date for all funds or one in one week each.-- Madhu   A:  You have selected good funds and you can invest 2000 per month in each of these funds. I would recommend to replace Franklin India Opportunities with Franklin India Blue chip to increase large cap allocation and UTI MNC with any good Debt fund like DSP Blackrock Income Opportunities Fund so that you have some debt allocation and you can utilize that debt allocation to rebalance your portfolio.     Also if you strictly have five years investment horizon & you are accumulating for some goal, start reducing your equity allocation from third year onwards. Whether you keep one date for sip or five different dates it will not affect your averaging so better you keep one date.        Q: I am a 38 year old professional, working since 1999. I have a wife, 2 kids aged 6 and 3 and parents dependent on me. Currently my investment is only into the real estate and gold total worth 50lacs.Looking at the India's growing economic dynamics, I m seeking to invest in MFs. I can start with a monthly SIP of 40k and then move up to 60k a month. I m looking for a long term of say 20 years and want to do this for my kids. Pls suggest good funds and whether my thought process is good or not.--Sharad Agarwal         A:    Your thought process is perfect and you are in right direction. I would recommend to keep around 70% equity allocation and 30% Debt allocation in your portfolio because you have long term investment horizon . Keep rebalancing your portfolio once a year on a fixed date and as you are investing for 20 years, start reducing your equity allocation once you cross 15 years. I would recommend to allocate Rs. 40000 as follows -- Rs 10,000 each in Franklin India Bluechip, ICICI Prudential Focussed Bluechip, and Rs 5000 each in Franklin India Prima, ICICI Prudential Value Discovery, DSP Blackrock Income Opportunities and ICICI Prudential Regular Savings Fund.    Q: I am investing Rs 20,000 per month using SIP through an online robo advisor for more than 4 years, to create a retirement corpus by 2030. My gains are 12%. Is it advisable to book the profits? What will be the adverse arithmetics if I do so? --- Sreenadh   A:  As you have a very long investment horizon there is no point in booking profits right now. If markets move up sharply you may miss the upside substantially. On the other side if markets fall you will be benefitted but as you have long investment horizon you should not worry about short market volatility and continue to invest. Ideal approach is, you should decide your equity and debt allocation and rebalance your portfolio once a year on a fixed date. For example you may keep 80% in Equity Funds and 20% in Debt or liquid funds and rebalance your portfolio once a year on a fixed date and bring it back to this allocation. This will automatically book necessary profits and safe guard your portfolio.  

