URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/recos/buy-on-declines-great-eastern-shipping-company-ltd-target-rs-380-0-hdfc-securities/articleshow/53491439.cms

Title : Buy on Declines Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd., target Rs 380.0 :  HDFC Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Market,HDFC Securities,Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd.

Date :  Aug 01, 2016, 04.38 PM IST

Document ID : 951

Content:
 HDFC Securities has Buy on Declines call on Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd. with a target price of Rs 380.0. The current market price of Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd. is 350.9. Basically, the company Great Eastern Shipping is the largest private sector shipping company in India on a tonnage basis. The company also operates in offshore oil field services segment through its 100% subsidiary. The company has survived the ups and downs in cycles very well so far when all other private players have faced a lot of pain. The crude and commodity cycle seems to be on the up now after remaining down for a long period of time. The company announces healthy dividend every year. Last year the dividend was 13.5% which at the current price gives a yield of about 4%. The management is very good in timing the buying and selling of vessels and lately over the last eight months, they have bought five vessels and sold two which gives an indication that they are quite bullish on the shipping cycle. There are certain concerns on the stock also in terms of geopolitical risks or OPEC actions. The European financial crisis could also result in lower movement of goods. Then, reversal in slow fresh ordering and high scrappage of ships could also impact the freight rates. Forex volatility is another risk faced by the company. The return ratios have on the lower side but have been improving. So net-net coming from good management, low leverage, good dividend yield, shipping cycle seeming to turn upwards, all this probably convinces us to put our buy on that company.  

