URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//sudden-spurt-in-health-and-wellness-industry-in-koramangala/articleshow/51580107.cms

Title : Sudden spurt in health and wellness industry in Koramangala - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Yoga,stress,Sridhar Dubey,RPM,Koramangala,BodyCombat,body pump,body balance,Ashmantak

Date :  Mar 28, 2016, 10.39 AM IST

Document ID : 409

Content:
 By ​Nivedita Mishra    KORAMANGALA: When life-style related diseases are tightening its grip, Koramangla, a startup-hub where young leaders are betting for their best, is witnessing a sudden spurt in health and fitness industry, as the youth here are increasingly prioritising there fitmess. And their effort is not without any understanding. Ashmantak, a techie living in Koramangala says that he came across reports of increasing non-communicable disease in India and its reason. He is right in thinking that the modern lifestyle is contributing to all these diseases, as a report on non-communicable diseases released by the World Health Organization in 2014, has highlighted that non-communicable disease (NCD) has increased its share in India. Earlier, communicable disease were prominent in the country and now NCD like, diabetic, a cardio-vascular diseases and many others have almost equaled the disease burden.    Stress is a very common feature in modern day life and then the long-working hours with uncertainty of meeting deadlines of finishing projects. These are all adding up to the woes.     Ashmantak, working in a software giant says that he dedicates two hours, that too at least five days at a fitness centre. If he fails to meet the target due to hectic schedule, he ensures even by going the fitness centre in night, somewhere at 9 or 10. He considers it as a benefit of staying in location like Koramangla where fitness centres do take care of the odd timings of the working professionals too.     Similarly, Sridhar Dubey, a resident of Gorakhpur who works in a call centre says that his lifestyle is not healthy. Working in night shifts took a toll on his sleeping patterns, resulting into a number of health issues. When he considered experts, they told him to go to some fitness centres. Relived from his health issues, Shridhar now finds himself in better shape and lot more energetic too after working-out in gym for last one year.     The awareness of these youths brings best name to Koramangala when it comes to fitness. Here not only reputed brands but many innovative startups have mushroomed in every corner to cater to the growing demand of fitness freaks. These centres are not just about sweating out on treadmills rather to aerobics, zumba, active yoga and other all other possibilities. At many centres, programmes like dances are also organised to bring mental and physical relief to working professionals.     Industry players believe that the market is growing 10 to 15 percent every year due to increased awareness, growing population density and affluence. Role of heightened awareness regarding health and lifestyle, is also significant in the growth of wellness industry. Like, Vikram Aditya Bhatia, managing director of fitness first, had once told FT, popularity of fitness is increasing in Koramangala. Fitness First, a multinational fitness centre, has its presence in 16 countries with 380 clubs and with over 1 million members. Fitness First Oasis Centre is the second Fitness First health club in Bangalore, strategically located on the 4th floor of Oasis Centre Mall, located in one of the most vibrant and premium retail districts of Bangalore - Koramangala. This 10,000 square feet club is equipped with more than 80 state-of-the-art fitness equipment, including upgraded cardio equipment with Visioweb to access the internet while working out, and has dedicated studios for Group Exercise and Indoor cycling. Members at this club are able to enjoy popular Group Exercise classes like Body Pump, BodyCombat, Yoga, Body Balance, RPM and Zumba, all for free, says the website.     Another, Koramangala based fitness centre The Zone which has been popular among professionals for its services. Like, Sunitha R, an advocate writes about her experience with The Zone, "Pilates is a wonderful exercise regimen for strengthening the core muscles. I discovered Pilates and the Zone Studio by chance in 2009, while trying to gather information about coping with back pain which was plaguing me. Since then I have been training in/doing Pilates at The Zone Studio. My Pilates sessions with Anjali have helped me immensely in managing my back problems."     Co-founder of The Zone, Anjali Sareen along her husband Sharat Sareen who co-founded The Zone, in 2001 used their expertise in the technical aspects of equipment, training methods, and the latest innovations in the fitness industry, along with his experience in conducting in-house training for fitness instructors to make the venture one of its kind.     Not only has the fitness industry, but also the spa centres have been grabbing eye-balls of people in Koramangala. As experts believe that the industry is growing between 30 to 45 per cent year on year, the beauty and skin care business taking its share in the market.     A very popular, Oh Beauty Salon which was opened few years back had made good reputation among locals. Along with its trained professional therapists, it offers a vast range of beauty and grooming services related to physical appearance and mental relaxation.    

