URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/five-important-triggers-that-changed-your-market-while-you-were-sleeping/articleshow/53764898.cms

Title : Five important triggers that changed your market while you were sleeping - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stocks,State Bank Of India,markets,Inflation,ICICI bank,economy,Crude oil,China

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 07.59 AM IST

Document ID : 813

Content:
  Good morning, dear reader!    Stocks gained in overnight trade as Fed's dovishness has given wings to market even as crude oil has re-entered the bull market. Meanwhile, steel companies seem to have slipped in deeper waters than you previously thought.     All this and more in today's roundup of news, views and cues that would have changed your market while you were sleeping.    Stocks rise; dollar tumbles:  US and European stocks continued their upward surge on hope that central banks' dovishness will continue to provide wings to equity markets. The S&P500; index rose 0.22 per cent overnight, taking strength from the minutes of the US Federal Reserve's last meeting. The US dollar slipped 0.61 per cent against six other major currencies as Fed rate hike bets cooled.    Rejoice! Oil bulls are back:  US crude oil entered a bull market overnight, rising over 20% from its recent lows on higher demand in the US and possibility of an accord by the Opec on output freeze. Oil futures climbed 3.1 per cent in overnight trade, helping the bulls to put the bears away at the expense of consumers. However, with demand in India rising at double-digit pace, high crude prices could soon be perturbing Indians.    Frisco Fed's spoiler:  The San Francisco Fed's John Williams, who is also a Federal Reserve member, suggests that the time is ripe for a rate hike by the US central bank. The reason he cites is that the US economy has been gaining strength for some time now. He also suggests that the long wait for raising rates will create asset bubbles in the market and leave the Fed behind the curve on tackling inflation.    SBI's merger is almost done:  State Bank of India last evening approved the merger of its five associate banks and Bhartiya Mahila Bank. The merger will create a banking behemoth with an asset book of Rs 37 lakh crore and make it almost five times the size of ICICI Bank. The jury is still out on whether the merger will stand to help SBI or ruin it.    Steel is still messy:  The global steel industry owes $150 billion in debt to investors and most of its comes from India, China and Brazil, said a report by Ernst & Young. According to the firm, a 30 per cent decline in steel prices contributed to the exacerbation of the situation. EY believes the Indian government has so far been supportive of the industry through MIPs. The steel ministry is reluctant to extend the courtesy beyond October, leaving the industry to fend for itself from there on.  

