URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/we-develop-people-on-a-career-path-where-they-can-be-valuable-for-decades-ogilvys-john-seifert/articleshow/53617444.cms

Title : We develop people on a career path where they can be valuable for decades: Ogilvy's John Seifert - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.21 AM IST

Document ID : 299

Content:
We got a chance to interview Ogilvy's global CEOs and lifers at the agency, the newly appointed John Seifert and the exiting agency head Miles Young together. Here they hold forth on the transition, India plans, the new agenda, and being consistently creative among other things. Excerpts  Unlike many other agencies, the transition of leadership has been rather smooth and uneventful. How did you manage that? Miles Young: The secret is to have someone from the inside. The other thing to remember is to allow a significant period of overlap between the two CEOs. So some things John has taken up fully and some things I have been helping him with. He has had time to get up to speed plus we have been travelling together to the various offices. In that sense, the transition should be seamless. I don't know if anyone would be surprised to wake up on 1st September to discover John was the new CEO.  Miles, when we spoke to you last about succession you said you wanted 'someone who believes in the brand. Someone who can stick to the strategy in principle and who looks at what I've done, can be critical about it and bring something fresh and new.' What was it about John that made you believe he was the man for the job? (MY) I'm glad I said all of that! John was the sure candidate for me and for many reasons. Firstly, his track record in North America as the CEO. The agency was in low ebb there and John pushed it back in full tide.  Secondly I'm absolutely convinced that the brand (Ogilvy) is very important and whoever does the job has to really understand the brand. For me to have an outsider would have been horrible. (There has been one outsider CEO Charlotte Beers) who was very good one but there is no reason to have another one right now. It is important to have the cultural continuity. Thirdly, I was very mindful of the client and how they'll respond to the choice. I wanted someone who was a client person which John is.  What do you believe the role of a global CEO ought to be? John Seifert: First thing is to clarify what the brand stands for. Miles and I grew up in the era of David Ogilvy, (the founder) and he was never ever confused what the brand stands for. Because we had a founder who was alive, if he ever thought you were not living up to the brand, you got a hand written note from him. So there was great clarity through most of our careers on what Ogilvy stood for. It is harder than ever to be clear today. The other thing is we have to simplify. We have invested in many new tools and capabilities, new talent and places. It is very easy for people to get into silos. We need to unify everybody for our next 5/10/20 year agenda if we have to remain relevant.  Miles, you were CEO through a very transitional phase in the industry. What skills did that require? MY: There are three things. First is speed. When the world is changing fast, you also need to change very fast. Funnily enough, advertising agencies are very slow moving and Martin has always made that criticism of us. To get speed requires a fair bit of intervention. A leader has to get out and push and initiate. So it required a more interventionist stance than maybe my predecessors had because the circumstances had changed.  Second thing is the ability to manage ambiguity. Digital has brought to the world a series of dualisms, e.g. is it about data or is it about creativity? Managing that dualism and getting the team and people to be comfortable is a huge secret. It is not understood much, nor taught in the business schools nor written about much but it requires a lot of personal impact because processes don't help you through. Thirdly, be highly collaborationist.  Today, competition for advertising is coming from everywhere. What is Ogilvy doing to stay relevant? JS: I spent a full week at Cannes and spent 60%-70% of my time was with partners who will be critical how our work develops and gets executed. We are doing it now and it goes back to Miles' point of speed and collaboration. More of our work is going to be about trying new things.  What kind of changes does that require? JS: We have to be prepared not to live in our own little worlds but to go out there and be connected. Are we going to build big office spaces or we are going to create spaces that'll be about deep collaboration where people can come in and leave in a very fluid and agile way? We are seeing office spaces in the Ogilvy system designed around this and they are only a third as big as they would have been 5 years ago. We saw this big table in our Tokyo office which is all about people coming in, and sitting around in a spontaneous way to creatively solve problems. Much like the Starbucks Community table. We want to be a brand that is sticky and brings people together.  While Piyush Pandey has been an incredible leader, logic dictates that a clear career path is a huge motivator for the best talent to blossom and think of radically innovative ideas. What are the plans of succession for the Indian office? JS: Succession is a deeply private matter. But here is one of the things I love about Ogilvy. We develop people on a career path where they can be valuable for decades. I'm standing on the shoulders of the previous 8 CEOs and chairmen of Ogilvy - every single one of them played a role in influencing and shaping my career. I believe that Piyush is going to be one of those players who will influence careers of people for many years to come. We may ask him to do some different things and he may re-balance his priorities at some point in the future. I don't think Piyush is going anywhere. It is a very important question and one we think deeply about. I want to pay forward the 37 years that the company has invested in me and part of that is making sure that we give the best and brightest a career path that they can be excited about.  

