URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/save/how-working-youngsters-can-save-while-living-away-from-home/articleshow/53238262.cms

Title : How working youngsters can save while living away from home - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : planning,PG,money,ET Wealth,Credit card

Date : Jul 18, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 331

Content:
  After working for three years in Goa, 28-year-old Mumbai native Gaurav Kawali moved to Pune recently. Ask him how his experience of living away from home has been so far and Kawali earnestly explains how much he has learnt to cut down on unnecessary expenses.     One among the millions of young Indians working in cities away from home, Kawali was not always savvy with money. "When I first started living on my own, I spent way beyond what I earned and ended up maxing out my credit card," he says. For many millennials living away from the comfort of their parents' home for the first time, the challenge lies in making their salaries last the entire month. Says Sapna Tiwari, Chief Financial Planner at Rupeewiz: "Young working individuals living alone in a new city often display poor money management skills and save very little, if at all." However, there are ways they can cut costs significantly. All it needs is a bit of planning.    Home truths   When you have just started working and living alone, you don't need a big house. As Rohit Shah, CEO of financial advisory firm Getting You Rich suggests, "Consider paying guest accommodation to save on furniture and household gadget costs. Some offer food as part of the package, so search for a deal."     If living as a paying guest does not appeal, consider sharing a house with one or two others. Mumbai-based digital marketing professional Falaq Thakur (22) has been working in Hyderabad for the past year. He shares a one-bedroom flat with a flatmate. He pays Rs 4,000 a month as his share of the rent. Had he taken the flat alone, his outgo would have been double. What's more, he has taken a place close to his office, cutting down on travel costs. For those new in a city Shah suggests living in a serviced apartment or company-owned guest houses till they decide where best to stay. Multiple websites list rental and PG options in different cities.     Once you have a roof over your head comes the question of furniture and appliances. Here, it makes money sense to hire, especially if you are unsure about how long you will remain on the present job and city. When 27-year-old Adilabad resident Raj Badugu moved to Hyderabad a year ago, he chose to hire an air cooler and television instead of buying. He pays Rs 800 a month for the two appliances. Had he purchased, it would have cost him Rs 24,000. Websites like rentomojo, gorenty, rentwala and letmehire offer everything from furniture to electronic goods on hire, across cities. Another advantage of hiring is you don't have to sell at a loss should you move cities or pay steep transportation charges.     After accommodation, a significant amount is spent on food. Like most new earners in an alien city, Kawali used to eat from takeaways and restaurants, burning a huge hole in his budget. Now, not only does he share a house with another friend and pays only Rs 5,000 a month in rent, the two have pitched in to hire a cook, bringing down food bills drastically. While earlier he was spending close to Rs 8,000 a month on food, he now spends Rs 3,000. A local  dabba  service also works out cheap.     There is a tendency among young professionals to splurge on cars or bikes as soon as they land their first job. Says Aditya Agarwal CEO and Co-founder of financial advisory firm Wealthy. in: "People forget that a vehicle comes with added costs like maintenance, fuel expenses and EMIs, which increase one's monthly budget substantially." Let's take the example of 25-year-old Akhil Kumar, who moved to Hyderabad from Calicut with a new job. After a year, he bought a two-wheeler worth Rs 92,000. He made a down-payment of Rs 40,000 from his savings and is now servicing an EMI of Rs 5,000 per month and spends another Rs 3,000 on fuel. During his first year in Hyderabad, he used public transport which cost him Rs 24,000 a year. Now, he incurs an yearly expense of Rs 96,000 on transport. Says Agarwal, "Find a home close to work and use public transport or car pool. The saving is substantial."    Travel and entertainment guide   Watching movies or shopping are favourite weekend pastimes for many. Here too one can save. Instead of heading for the theatre, opt for DVD rentals or download a film of choice. If a new release is what you are keen on, weekend morning shows or weekday early evening shows cost less. To shop, wait for discount season.     When travelling home, plan well in advance. Last minute airfare or train tickets bought on  tatkal  are expenses that can be avoided. According to Agarwal, plan your visits at least three to four months in advance to save costs.         

