URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//modern-art-continues-to-find-favour-with-investors/articleshow/12038155.cms

Title : Modern art continues to find favour with investors - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Modern Art,buying patterns,artworks,art

Date :  Feb 26, 2012, 02.45 AM IST

Document ID : 430

Content:
      When the seasons change, so do the buying patterns and trends when it comes to collecting art. At least, it appears so when it comes to a connoisseur's preferences of favourite artists or young and emerging ones.             However, according to reports reflecting market sentiments, given the opportunity , most buyers still prefer to invest in modern art. This is not a new phenomenon. It has been a noticeable trend in the last few years.             It has been observed that many people are inclined to buy works of modern artists. When compared to contemporary art, modern art has been around for several decades and there is an existing track record for many artists. Their works have been bought, sold and resold, perhaps several times over.             Modern art has been fetching high returns in secondary sales and clearly has been performing consistently well at auctions and art fairs. This is one of the major reasons why collectors and art connoisseurs prefer to invest in modern art.             Another factor, which may not be the dominant one, but nevertheless exists, is that at times contemporary art maybe more conceptual in nature and therefore may not appeal to a larger cross-section of viewers. The inability to relate to the artwork may in turn make them reluctant to purchase it.             As prices of modern art have been fairly high for several years now, many buyers find it difficult to invest in larger or significant works. Major artworks are normally acquired by seasoned art connoisseurs.             However, beginners are inclined towards purchasing smaller works, or drawings and sketches, which might be more affordable for them. In fact, many art collectors prefer to begin their collections with modern art. The element of safety or the lower risk associated with modern art is clearly the driving force for most of them.    

