URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/security-tech/technology/will-artificial-intelligence-remould-the-world-of-cyber-security/articleshow/53682960.cms

Title : Will Artificial Intelligence remould the world of cyber security? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : IoT,Hackers,F-secure,artificial intelligence

Date :  Aug 13, 2016, 12.12 PM IST

Document ID : 767

Content:
  By Amit Nath    Cyber security is a crucial challenge in today's world, as government agencies, corporations and even individuals are increasingly becoming victims of cyber-attacks. It is a well-known fact that businesses are turning more and more to the cloud and mobile applications as a way to stay competitive in the market. However, cloud storage, IoT and mobile applications escalate security risks for all enterprises. When smaller organizations invest in security measures they frequently look for the most cost-efficient options.     It should be considered that cyber-attacks are not only frequent, but frequently creative and innovative. Though many large corporations around the world consistently employ "'security in their very DNA", they often fail to keep up pace with hackers who are always figuring out newer ways to bunk your security vaults.     Big companies mostly have security deeply embedded in their system; however SMBs usually patch low-cost security solutions onto their overall IT infrastructure and thus, are more susceptible to cybercrimes. One emerging technology with an immersive and potentially data-protective quality is artificial intelligence.    AI the savior?   The edge that Artificial Intelligence has is that it is constantly learning, as are hackers. Security-driven AI systems can easily detect and identify bad behaviors from good behaviors. As these systems constantly learn and develop they can work alongside human engineers to identify threats and prevent attacks. Mobile technology and open source software is only making traditional cybersecurity more daunting and thus, AI seems to be the way to go.     As AI innovations and smart technologies develop the capacity to work their way into business DNA; breach insurance and other forms of insurance will not be worth considering.     AI enables one to predict a cyber-attack before it actually happens, thereby preventing it. It is surely a revolutionary idea in the world of internet security today. Recently, researchers at MIT have developed a new Artificial Intelligence-based cyber security platform, called 'AI2,' which has the ability to predict, detect, and stop 85% of Cyber Attacks with high accuracy.     Let us look at how cyber-attacks evolved with time. A simple ordering of lunch by a bank employee can take down the entire bank and it is surprisingly easy as well. Imagine a bank staff member orders lunch online, using his company email address to complete the transaction. Like many people, he uses the same password to place the order as he does to log in to the bank's system.     This can be a dangerous move as cyber hackers can now automate attacks on businesses with weaker security, for example the outlet from where he ordered his lunch from. Hackers then can try those login credentials on the bank's website and, if they work, tap into the bank's internal networks.     In this new era of cyber-security threats, criminals are leaving behind their traditional, ultra-sophisticated exploits and instead targeting the weakest link in the cyber-chain: humans. Hence, companies have to make fast moves and implement faster-moving detection techniques, using big data and even artificial intelligence-to keep up with the menace.    Enemy within   In the past, cyber criminals attempted to attack companies externally, breaking down their well-protected perimeter but as perimeter security products have come of age; thugs have also changed their game plan. Nowadays, cyber-thieves aim for boring, everyday network activity inside a company's walls that no security expert would usually pay attention to, like the bank employee who used the same password to log in. Therein lays the problem.     Speed is paramount to prevent cyber-attacks as codes and 'signatures' to identify and block down malicious code patterns are a slow process. Cyber-thugs create new threats, and security experts respond with more signatures every time. This was traditionally the process to address cyber-attacks. Today, cybersecurity researchers, government agencies, and academicians are looking to artificial intelligence to diagnose and fight cyberattacks far more effectively, which was hitherto possible.     We encounter daily artificial intelligence technology that we are not even aware of. It is how ecommerce portals track shoppers' buying behavior and show them ads that attempt to match their tastes in clothing or electronics. Though this is a very simple use of AI tech, more and more advanced forms of AI are making inroads and doing a lot of work. Recent advancements in processing power are poised to empower computers to outperform humans when it comes to many aspects of defending networks against impending threats.     The future is not far when bots will be out there looking for vulnerabilities in network traffic, and other bots will simultaneously plug those spots. Globally, such systems are emerging. Big data startup Splunk partnered with consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton to offer artificial intelligence-powered services to help deter attacks. AI culls networks for suspicious activity using a machine-learning algorithm that is not supervised by humans.    Smart enough?   In the future, not so far away, AI systems will eventually become smart enough to know the difference between an innocuous computer glitch and a malicious attack and prevent those. These systems are getting smarter by the day and learning continuously, and with a little bit of human interference, they are poised to accurately detect, prevent and destroy cyber-attacks.     With the advancement in technology, we will have smart houses, we will have the Internet of Things, and we will have all of these things generating sensor data. We need a platform that can consume that data and protect that too. Treading that line of thought, a few cyber security platforms have begun to offer automated patch management systems which involves acquiring, testing, and installing security softwares to an administered computer system. These systems can help detect, fix and/or improve computer security and upgrade its performance.     One crucial advantage that artificially intelligent defense systems would have is the ability to react instantly in real time. By the time people recognize and take action to combat a hack, it is often too late.     However AI cannot work alone. In the world of cybersecurity, human-driven techniques typically rely on rules created by living experts and therefore miss any attacks that do not match the rules. Machine-learning approaches, on the other hand, rely on anomaly detection, which tends to trigger false positives that create distrust of the system and still end up having to be investigated by humans.     Although cybersecurity researchers and government agencies are delving into the realm of artificial intelligence to diagnose and fight cyberattacks far more effectively than before, we still have a long way to go in developing highly effective data security systems. All said and done, AI surely is the future of cyber security - with a bit of human supervision.    The author is the Head of Asia Pacific (Corporate Business) - F-Secure. 

