URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/the-growth-for-the-year-will-normalise-around-20-venkat-jasti-chairman-ceo-suven-life-science/articleshow/53753528.cms

Title : The growth for the year will normalise around 20%: Venkat Jasti, Chairman & CEO, Suven Life Science - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Venkat Jasti,SUVN-502,Suven Life Science,FDA

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 01.24 PM IST

Document ID : 625

Content:
 In this interview with ET Now, Venkat Jasti, Chairman and CEO of Suven Life Science talks about growth, capex plan and other things. Edited excerpts:   What is the growth rate in Q1, is it on track for 20 per cent growth?   Yes, the growth will be around 20 per cent over the year but not on quarter on quarter basis. The growth is much better this quarter compared to last year, but it is down compared to last quarter. The growth for the year will normalise around 20 per cent.    What is your outlook about other segments like speciality intermediates and clinical testing services?   Speciality chemicals has more or less reached the top. It has reached saturation level and the growth will be 3 per cent to 5 per cent over the year. Other service like contract technical services will be around 15 per cent to 20 per cent, but there is not much of a volume compared to other two sectors.    Are there any more products that will move from phase III to pre-launch commercialisation?   It is very difficult for us to tell because our visibility is not more than six months as of today. There is only one product in phase III which we hope will move into the launch mode. We have 68 projects in phase I and about 45 projects in phase II. They are doing okay.    What is the update on SUVN-502?   SUVN-502 is mainly for Alzheimer's disease. It is in phase-2 clinical trial where we have enrolled about 537 patients, all spreading over 90 sites of US. If everything goes well, the data read out will be in the end of 2017.    What is the capex plan for FY17, what will be the exact allocation and where will it be used?   Replacement capital will be around 10 per cent of the asset value which is normal for continuation. We may be spending about Rs 50 crore towards the upgradation of facilities to meet new global requirement, not regulatory requirement like that of FDA, but customers' requirement where hypotency compounds has to be manufactured. Eventually when we do MCE based activities, we will not be knowing the toxicity levels so they would like to have a facility where they can make these products under special conditions. We will be spending around Rs 50 crore in next 12 months to 15 months for this.    Can you tell us about the three products that are ready for near term launch, what kind of growth potential do you see from it and any other approvals on the anvil?   No, the ANDA approvals will be a long drawn process. At this time, only one product has been commercialised and three more are under preparation. These results will come over a 18-24 months time period.  

