URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/my-first-year-at-work-cooking-unleashes-the-stress-art-work-says-canon-indias-kazutada-kobayashi/articleshow/53549835.cms

Title : My first year at work: Cooking unleashes the stress art work, says Canon India's Kazutada Kobayashi - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Kazutada Kobayashi,Canon

Date :  Aug 05, 2016, 03.58 AM IST

Document ID : 681

Content:
 First job   When I first joined Canon in 1980, I was assigned the job of a direct salesperson for photocopier machines by way of cold calling. I have been with the organisation for the last 36 years now, handling various mandates and heading country operations. My strong association with the company has given me an in-depth understanding of the brand's DNA and vision. This helps me in keeping my teams motivated and to retain the leadership positioning of the company.    Myfirst 100 days at work  AFTER BEING IN  the factory for two months and attending management trainee sessions in the US for almost 15 months, I was given my first task. As per the mandate, I was assigned to work in the company's headquarters to coordinate a group launch for a new product. I spent the first 100 days studying products, market, competitions and internal systemfor production and export.    Theworst mistake I made   ONE EXPERIENCE THAT  I can recall is while I was assigned the task of compiling a product brochure, where I overlooked one of the most vital specifications. This ultimately resulted in redoing the whole thing again in a rushed way. Unnecessarily, several papers went into the dustbin. Lesson learnt was that don't just double check but triple check a document. Scrutinise all possibilities of having missed out anything before you press enter.    My biggest innovation   I host 'Power Lunch' for our women employees to understand their aspiration, needs, challenges etc to improvise on our policies to make First job: Canon a better workplace.    My work-life balance  SPENDING TIME WITH  family, pursuing my passion for cooking and playing few of my favourite sports, like table tennis and golf, helps me maintain a work-life balance. Cooking unleashes the stress at work and eating a meal cooked by me together with my family truly completes the circle of life for me. Playing my favourite sports keeps me physically and mentally fit. And all these are important aspects for a successful life.     (As told to Varuni Khosla) 

