URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/merger-to-give-clients-finer-pricing-more-innovation-sbi-chairman-arundhati-bhattacharya/articleshow/53765113.cms

Title : Merger to give clients finer pricing, more innovation: SBI Chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Swap ratio,State Bank Of India,SBI,Bharatiya Mahila Bank,Arundhati Bhattacharya

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 09.03 AM IST

Document ID : 2

Content:
     State Bank of India, the country's largest public sector lender has approved the swap ratio for the merger with listed associated banks and by the end of this financial year, will be among the top 50 banks globally.         After the merger with five associate banks and Bharatiya Mahila Bank, the combined entity will have 23,762 branches across India, advances of Rs 18 lakh crore and deposits of Rs 23 lakh crore. Speaking to ET,    chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya    said both the customers and the bank will gain. Edited excerpts:     How will this merger benefit customers?   The borrowers will get a finer pricing and I am hoping that all customers will get the benefit of the many new offerings that we are bringing. So, be it wealth management or better risk practices, the products that we are innovating regularly, all of those things we will be able to deliver to the customer within quicker timelines. Hopefully, we will be able to deliver much better experience to the customers of associate banks.    What would be the savings for the bank?   The cost savings will happen over a period of time. Currently, there are several duplications due to the fact that there are six corporate offices, six treasuries and so, there are six of everything. Overall, the replications will go away, so there will be cost benefits. We will be in a better position to expand our reach and that is where SBI will also benefit. We will also get a better coverage with the same number of branches. As you know, we are ramping up our InTouch digital branches and with that we will give 24x7 banking facilities to our customers.    Is there a number on cost savings?   I can't give you a number as this will happen over a period of time, so it is difficult to quantify. Over the next three years, the impact of the merger will be fully felt.    What advantage would SBI have in terms of raising resources post the merger?   The actual valuation of these banks was not taken into consideration. Once the entire system is together, obviously, you are a larger entity, you have much better and tighter risk management practices. So overall, the valuation of the group itself will go up.    You have given a deadline of March 2017 to complete the merger. How realistic is it?   Now we have a grievance redressal procedure and will be advising every single minority shareholder and within 21 days they can come back with any grievances. So, depending on the numbers we get there, the grievance redressal committee will give us their recommendations, after which the boards have to consider them.     MUST READ: Merger of SBI, associate banks okayed by their boards     Thereafter, it will go to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and then the government for approval. The government has to notify it and after 30 days from the notification, this will become effective. We have another seven months, it is adequate time.    In terms of integration, how much of the work is done? Has the integration started?   Almost 30% of the work is done, but we can't integrate till the entire approval comes through. We have done the gap analysis on the IT front to see which applications are different and create migration tools so that it easily flows into our system. We have already done a mock run of treasury and that has worked well.    How much will be the government holding on account of this swap ratio?   I think it comes down to 59.7%. (The government's holding presently stands at 61.3%)    Senior officers from associate banks fear that they will get a raw deal. What are the HR challenges?   We have to understand that this has to be worked out among the associate banks and SBI. For instance, somebody has joined SBI in 1995 at a particular level and I find an associate bank where people are at a much higher level on account of the fact that they are a smaller bank, so it is fair on the part of both that something like this gets worked out.     So, we have to be fair to people coming in, we also have to be fair to our own people. But after the equivalence have been worked out, it will be totally merit based. We have implemented career development system and as we implement it across the bank we find that the subjectivity piece goes away. For that matter, even today, Bengaluru circle is headed by associate bank.  

