URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/passive-investing-can-also-generate-decent-stock-market-returns/articleshow/53682934.cms

Title : Passive investing can also generate decent stock market returns - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stock market returns,passive investors,Passive Investing,invest,ET Wealth

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 358

Content:
  Investors, generally, have two preconceived notions about stock market returns. One, only smart, well-informed, well-researched, knowledgeable or 'active' investors, with ample time, money and resources can earn good returns. Two, big money can be made only by timing the markets—buying low and selling high. In other words, only active management can succeed in Indian stock markets.     Our research team analysed 25-year data, going back to 1991, to test these assumptions. We categorised three types of investors: Active (smart), dumb and passive (average). The active investor is wellinformed, times the markets, and has all the tools and resources—research, access to databases, real-time prices etc.—at his disposal. He manages to invest Rs 1,000 every year at the bottom of the Indian benchmark stock index, S&P; BSE Sensex. We presume that he has consistently done this for the past 25 years. The dumb investor has no understanding of stock markets and has no resources or tools to time the market. He is a complete failure and has invested Rs 1,000 every year at the peak of the Sensex for the past 25 years. No investor can be dumber. The passive investor invests Rs 1,000 at the closing Sensex levels, on the last trading day of each calendar year. The average investor is a passive investor. He does not spend any time or money on any analytical tools or research and just follows a pre-determined rule in a disciplined manner.     Let's see how these three investors have fared as on 31 December 2015. The CAGR (compound annual growth rate) returns made by the active investor stand at 13.72%. We have excluded the income from dividends, its reinvestment, transaction costs and income tax incidence, if any, from these returns.     The dumb investor was not as lucky. I asked several people to guess how much would the dumb investor have made. Answers varied from -8% to +7.5% CAGR. The best response was: Dumb must have got half the smart (active) investor's return— that's 6.9%. When I gave the figure, everyone was shocked. It was 10.30% CAGR. The dumb investor did practically nothing and went horribly wrong year after year for the past 25 years, and still generated a formidable return of 10.30%.     The returns made by the passive or the average investor stands at 11.54% CAGR, better than dumb and not very far from the smart, active investor. His return, compared to the longer average of bank deposit rates in India (around 7.5%) are still higher by 4%. The post-tax returns could be even higher. If one compares the average longterm retail inflation rates at 7.25% or so the returns from stocks are higher by 4.25%. This is the power of passive investing.     For all the hard work, all the luck, time and money spent by the smart, active guy, his returns are not in multiples, say, twice or thrice that of the dumb or the average, passive investor's. In fact, the passive investor's returns are not very far from what the active investor has made by doing everything right. Moreover, the dumb investor has nothing to lose on his performance. In fact, occasionally, if he buys when the market is not at its peak, it will only add to his performance. On the other hand, the active investor's performance gap can only narrow down, if he misses buying at yearly lows for a few years. The active, smart investor thus carries a performance risk. Interestingly, for 12 years, up to 2002, the returns of the active, dumb and passive investors were very similar to each other. Post-2002, the smart investors took off as stocks rallied sharply.     Some investors would be better off being average-passive kinds, rather than taking more risk, spending more time and investing money to make marginally better returns. Average investors are smart enough to invest in stock markets in a passive, rule-based, regular, disciplined manner for longer periods of time, even though they don't understand the factors that drive the markets. Not everyone can be smart and active, but being average and passive, which still helps generate reasonable returns from the stock markets, seems to be a child's play. You need not be a great timer of markets or understand the markets deeply. Being average is the new smart!     (By Devendra Nevgi, CEO, ZyFin Funds. Views are personal.)    

