URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/opinion/interviews/Feminism-cannot-be-a-copy-paste-job-Chetan-Bhagat/articleshow/53789720.cms

Title : Feminism cannot be a copy-paste job: Chetan Bhagat - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sunday ET,Sakshi Malik,PV Sindhu,Half Girlfriend,Feminism,Chetan Bhagat,BJP

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.19 AM IST

Document ID : 967

Content:
  On Friday August 19, as entire India discussed the exploits of PV Sindhu, Sakshi Malik, Aditi Ashok, and how Indian women have recaptured some honour for India at the Olympics,  Chetan Bhagat  released the promo and a teaser for his forthcoming feminism-themed book, One Indian Girl.     He did all this sitting in Capetown, South Africa where the Mohit Suri film based on his earlier novel Half Girlfriend is being shot, starring Arjun Kapoor and Shradha Kapoor. Bhagat, true to form, is a co-producer.     In his new book, Bhagat writes in the first person, but for the first time his protagonist is a woman; an investment banker who is about to get married. Bhagat spoke to  ET  on his new book, feminism and how he is not aligned with the BJP.    Your new book One Indian Girl has a woman protagonist. Why?   There are two-three things. I wanted to challenge myself. You have to come up with stories that are different and universal. I am also a columnist and I have written about women's issues. Some of these columns went viral.     So I thought I can give it a try — writing in the first person as a female. It also breaks the mould of the small town boy that my novels usually have.    But the promo of the book, the video, seems to talk to your old audience — the young Indian male. When you say things like: I am a girl who earns a lot and have already had sex and you will hate me.   It does. And yet this is a promo and a teaser, which is the first chapter. So it is not really giving away the story, or the plot. This is just to generate interest — that here is a male writer who is writing in a female voice. And in the promo I am talking in general. Even women judge other women, even women become sexist. This is a book about feminism.    You have released the promo just when the country is talking about the girl child and how Indian female athletes have outdone their male counterparts in the Olympics.   You see I am extremely lucky. When I wrote about life at call centres, it was one of the hottest topics of discussion in India. When I did a book on corruption, "Indian Against Corruption" was doing their agitation. Today certainly feminism is the issue. I write about contemporary issues and I have to anticipate the mood and this book is coming out just at the right time.    How did you go about this? Did you read a lot of writers, women writers or books on feminism?   Well I interviewed 100 women for this book. I discussed the book with them and I did not want the reader to feel that this is some kind of pretence. I wanted women readers to feel this was authentic.    So what kind of women did you interview?   Every kind. Really, wherever I went, even when I was in a flight, I would talk to the air hostesses. I would talk to other women I knew. I did not record everything, but I had a plan and I went with a set of very specific questions.    And what did you read?   In preparation I would read a lot. I read feminist articles — maybe something by Sheryl Sandberg or Hillary Clinton and past feminist writings. I tried to get my hands on stuff so I could really understand the issues.    Many male writers have written as women. Did you read those writers?   Yes, I know this is not unique and I did read other men who have written in the first person as a woman. In the book feminism is the subject, but I am a man.    The girl in question in the novel appears to be affluent. So which parts of feminism will it touch upon?   Basically every major plot point in the novel will be about her being a woman, things that every girl has to face. The concept of feminism can be different for different women. The perspectives of a woman who is a housewife and a woman from south Mumbai will be different. Feminism cannot be a copy-paste job.    You have been a columnist for a while now, where sometimes you wear your analyst/investment banker hat. Do you like wearing that hat?   Yes I like writing pieces that are an analysis, or pieces that have points of view or opinions. It is not easy to do a column, but I have been an analyst and a banker in my earlier career and it is something I like doing.    Recently someone suggested that you could become the RBI Governor. Your response was feisty.   I am a writer and I write for a wide audience. So I respond to social media posers. See what happened here was Chetan Chauhan was appointed the head of NIFT and someone from a political party started saying that now Chetan Bhagat can head the RBI. Normally I would ignore a troll, but this was from a political party, so I had to jump in to tell them that look, I can do that job much better than some of the people you have in your party.    Are you politically aligned with the BJP?   Absolutely not. I cannot be aligned with any political party and am not aligned with the BJP. But that does not mean I have to criticise them all the time. If the GST is a good thing, I can say that. But for me it does not make sense to be aligned with a political party. I will lose credibility if I did that.    Anything else you want to add that I am not asking?   Yes. This book will be on Amazon and they are looking at one of the largest pre-orders. They tell me in the first three hours they got 10 times the pre-orders of what the new Harry Potter book got on the first day. Huge logistics will be deployed to deliver books on the first day to everyone who pre-ordered. For Half Girlfriend that number was 3 lakh.  

