URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/young-spikes-2016-competition-here-are-the-winners-judges-in-media-and-integrated-categories/articleshow/53722638.cms

Title : Young Spikes 2016 competition: Here are the winners & judges in Media and Integrated categories - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.16 AM IST

Document ID : 291

Content:
Teams from across agencies put their best foot forward to win a chance to participate in Young Spikes 2016 competition.  Media Winners Raveena Udasi Mathew, Digital Business Manager, Mindshare, Mumbai. Aditi Dalal, Director - Strategy, Mindshare, Mumbai.     The team should be prepared to answer all kinds of questions (in Singapore) about the idea. Divya Radhakrishnan, MD, Helios Media.   There were some entries that stood out if compared relatively, but overall, the entries were ordinary. Vinod Thadani, Chief Digital Officer, Mindshare.  Integrated winners  Skand Tripathi, Jr. Partner - Strategy, Utopeia Communicationz, Mumbai Rohini Pandey, Partner - Strategy, Utopeia Communicationz, Mumbai   Most of the thinking by the participants was in the right direction but some work stood out because of radical execution. Akash Das, Executive Creative Director, Lowe Lintas.   It was good to see that the teams had ideas that traveled across mediums with lot of new media deployed. After all that is the future of the industry. Sumanto Chattopadhyay, Executive Creative Director - South Asia, O&M; Mumbai.  Jury Speaks  There is a larger need — of nourishing and training the future leaders so they can make unbiased decisions and are also secure enough to work in teams for more campaigns that will make a mark.   Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari Ad-person turned film-maker.   Rathi Gangappa, COO, MediaCom India  The brief was a bit too hard. The fact that participants had to crack an idea that straddles the launch of a ride share service that boasts of cheapest fares, in addition to dealing with the problem of fleet taxi unions was difficult to stitch together.    

