URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/eo-to-hold-kids-conclave-to-foster-entrepreneurship-in-youngsters/articleshow/53629576.cms

Title : EO to hold Kids Conclave to foster entrepreneurship in youngsters - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vinod Krishnan,Navneet Agarwal,MyEO,Kids' Conclave,Heroism 2016 - Bring out the Hero in You,EO South Asia,Entrepreneurs' Organization

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 11.20 AM IST

Document ID : 715

Content:
  In a one of its kind event for young kids to learn the ropes of entrepreneurship, the Chennai chapter of Entrepreneurs' Organization (EO) is organizing a Kids' Conclave titled "Heroism 2016 - Bring out the Hero in You."     Based on the premise that a hero is inside each one of us and just awaits discovery and exploration, this MyEO event will be hosted at Hotel Hyatt Regency, Chennai from 12th August - 15th August 2016. According to a statement, the conclave is designed in the format of 'by the children, for the children' - where under the suitable guidance of adults, the participants will drive the show; all the while learning from each other.     The participants will be divided in two categories. The Organizers will comprise 8-12 year olds where the youngest Hero will set the pace of the camp. They will be given hands-on experiential exposure to activities like photography, creativity and production. The Innovators will be a batch of 13-16 year olds, who will connect to ideate and create a realistic strategic business plan. This plan can go on to be nurtured into an actual for profit venture with the right support.     "We are expecting to see participation from 14 different EO chapters from across India. We are eager to welcome the kids and instill the idea of 'Heroism' in them. This conclave will help our young heroes discover their real potential and hidden traits, which are waiting to be recognized, refined and bettered. This conclave will motivate the elder kids to create an executable business plan to evolve into a profitable venture," said Navneet Agarwal, EO Chennai, Chair for the Kids Conclave, in a statement.     The EO conclaves have traditionally been organized for established entrepreneurs, but the president of EO Chennai, Vinod Krishnan says the objective now is to enable the participants to use this conclave as a stepping- stone for their future decision making abilities. "The role each kid would take up will help them discover and explore what they are good at. It will give them a sense of achievement and confidence."     Kids' Conclave is one of the flagship events in EO South Asia programming. EO is a global business network of 10,000 plus leading entrepreneurs in 147 chapters and 48 countries. Founded in 1987 by a group of young entrepreneurs, EO enables business owners to learn from each other, leading to greater business success and an enriched personal life.     EO South Asia started in 1997 with a chapter in Mumbai and has now grown to 15 chapters and 1000 plus members. Each member, by rule, is owner founder/majority stakeholder of a business generating an earning of a minimum $ 1 million in the most recent fiscal year. EO SA has members from across industry sectors whose collective sales value is $ 87.6 billion.  

