URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/marketing-branding/marketing/as-funds-dry-up-ecommerce-companies-see-in-facebook-more-value-for-their-ad-spends/articleshow/53733316.cms

Title : As funds dry up, ecommerce companies see in Facebook more value for their ad spends - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Social media,PayTM,Facebook,downloads,Craftsvilla

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 02.28 AM IST

Document ID : 752

Content:
  NEW DELHI: As the investor frenzy dies down and the focus in ecommerce shifts to profitable, sustainable growth, Facebook is emerging as a key ally for e commerce companies to drive advertising and to grow their business.     Ad spends from e commerce companies are going up on Facebook and the social media platform is currently working on advanced measurement capabilities to help ecommerce companies weather the storm and to drive profitable growth.     "Given the focus on mobile over 6-9 months we are seeing really solid growth in terms of ad spends from e commerce companies. As the focus shifts to value, people will shift the dollars to where they think the maximum returns on investment are. There's focus on mobile and there's nobody better than us on mobile," Arjun Kolady, business head, e commerce for India and South Asia at Facebook told ET.     Kolady said over the past six months, the focus in e commerce has shifted from incessant customer acquisition, and other vanity metrics to profitability and measurable growth. "People are more worried about profitability, they want to have the right measurement models so that they know they're not burning cash. People come to Facebook and they check it 14-15 times a day. For a a marketer it is an opportunity to reach the consumer so many times. On a steady basis, we are seeing double digit returns on ad spends for e commerce companies on Facebook," said Kolady.     In the middle of June this year, mobile wallet firm Paytm launched a campaign showcasing different ways of using the Paytm wallet on television and digital media. The campaign received six million views on Facebook alone in about 7-10 days. "It drove a lot of app downloads for us. Facebook is becoming a more important part of our advertising plan and the amount of targeting and profiling it can do is significantly superior to other channels. When we run app install campaigns we figure customers installing our apps through Facebook are transacting more than any other sources. The social media platform has also become more advertiser friendly now. They share far more data with us and can help advertisers take informed decisions," said Shankar Nath, senior VP, Paytm.     Kolady said the company is identity based and big on mobile, features that it can leverage for companies like Paytm.     "We can look at the overall base of people who install the app and can try to understand more about the consumers and what sets them apart and can create cohorts of these consumers," he said. "And then we deliver personalised messages which will pop up in newsfeed, Instagram or across our network of apps and sites which is very relevant to them," he added.    Craftsvilla used some of Facebook's advanced features to re-target its users with relevant products on the platform. The campaign, which ran for a month, was aimed at people who had been to their website but didn't end up making a purchase. Through Facebook's targeted messaging and profiling the company reached out to these customers with products relevant to them, generating a trial. It states the campaign helped it reduce customer acquisition costs by 20%.     "Facebook understands its users and with its algorithms, targeted profiling of age groups and user behavior give a lot of leeway to the marketer. In today's environment, the focus is on efficiency and getting returns on every dollar spent. In terms of Lifetime Value or LTV, which indicates how much revenue the company is getting in the next six months from users who downloaded the app through a particular platform, we find Facebook users to be the most efficient. Its cost per install is far better than most other channels. Our spends on Facebook have gone up," said Manish Kalra, chief business officer at Craftsvilla.     Kolady said the companies have been using varied tools and products ranging from dynamic ads, to app engagement to feature phone targeting. "We have put in a lot of investment in trying to find and design products and solutions that are the right fit for this market. So slideshow is a great example of that or lead ads. These are products that came to India first and which we developed after getting feedback from the market," he added.  

