URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/twelve-stocks-in-focus-in-friday-morning-trade/articleshow/52353678.cms

Title : Twelve stocks in focus in Friday morning trade - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SpiceJet,Pidilite Industries,pidilite,ITC Ltd,ITC,HDFC bank,Gujarat State Petronet,Entertainment Network (India) Ltd,ENIL,Dishman Pharmaceuticals,Coal India,CIL,Castrol India,Castrol

Date :  May 20, 2016, 07.59 AM IST

Document ID : 923

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Friday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The Nifty50 formed a Black Marubozu kind of candle stick pattern on charts. This type of candle stick pattern is regarded as bearish especially when it closed below an important support," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.     "Nearest support for the market is visible at 7700 mark. Holding above this level is the key for the bulls and a move below this mark the intermediate term trend is likely to turn bearish," he added.    Here is a list of top twelve stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   ITC:  Tobacco-to-hotels-to-FMCG conglomerate ITC Ltd is expected to report 6.1 per cent YoY growth in the net profit to Rs 2504 crore for the quarter ended March 31, compared with Rs 2361 crore reported in the year-ago period.    SBI & Associate banks:  A section of employees of five associate banks of SBI has threatened to go on strike on Friday against their proposed merger with parent.    SpiceJet:  SpiceJet on Thursday announced a net profit of Rs 73 crore for the quarter to March, saying this was despite the budget airline's one-time expense of Rs 173 crore on stabilisation and reliability of its fleet.    Castrol India:  UK's BP has trimmed its stake in Castrol India after it sold 11.5 per cent stake in the lubricant firm for about Rs 2,075 crore.    Coal India:  State-run CIL arm Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) announced the reduction of its e-auction coal price by 20 per cent of the rate notified.    Parag Milk Food Ltd:  Leading multi-asset class fund manager IDFC Alternatives said it has completed a partial exit in Parag Milk Food Ltd, which got listed on the bourses on Thursday.    HDFC Bank:  HDFC Bank said it will seek shareholders' approval to hike the authorised share capital of the bank to Rs 650 crore. The proposal came as one of the outcomes of the board meeting of the bank held on Thursday.    ENIL:  Entertainment Network (India) Ltd, the operator of popular FM radio channel Radio Mirchi, reported an 18.3% increase in fourth-quarter total income, which took its full-year income beyond the Rs 500 crore mark.    Pidilite Industries:  Adhesives and industrial chemicals manufacturer Pidilite Industries reported a 48.97 per cent increase in standalone net profit at Rs 115.04 crore for the March quarter.    Gujarat State Petronet Ltd:  The company reported a 48 per cent rise in net profit to Rs 99.7 crore for the March quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 67.09 crore in January-March quarter of the previous fiscal, it said in a filing to the stock exchanges.    Dishman Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals:  The company reported a 29.29 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 49.92 crore for the March quarter.   Future Consumer Enterprise Ltd:  A part of Kishore Biyani-led Future Group, reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 25.82 crore for the fourth quarter ended on March 31, 2016.  

