URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/its-hard-to-be-a-venture-capitalist-even-tougher-to-be-his-wife/articleshow/53394936.cms

Title : It's hard to be a Venture Capitalist & even tougher to be his wife! - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Venture capitalists,VC stereotypes,VC,startup,shrewd businessmen

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 05.19 AM IST

Document ID : 316

Content:
  There's a certain perception issue that Venture Capitalists suffer from - and I realised it first hand when I told a few friends from the industry that I was getting married. "What does the guy do?" was the most obvious question they asked, hoping I would say he's a journalist or an adman such as themselves. "He's a VC," I said, rather plainly. And the reactions I got were anything but vanilla. "Oh, now you don't have to work for a living," said one. "Why do I not find such guys," sighed another ad(wo)man.     I wasn't displeased with their reactions. Fine, maybe I was. But I knew they were happy for me. The problem was they weren't happy I was marrying a nice human being, they were happy that he's a VC. Because they have a certain perception of VCs - hotshots with a lot of money. And then there's this other perception that the entrepreneurs have created of them - heartless, shrewd businessmen.     Honestly, I was living with the same perception myself, till I got married to one. That's when I saw what a day in the life of a venture capitalist is like - straight from hell, to put it mildly.     An entrepreneur has one company and its accompanying crises to deal with. A VC has several such startups in his portfolio to take care of, and something somewhere is going wrong with all of them simultaneously.     When a startup shuts down - and we've had several such instances in the recent past - everyone sympathises with the entrepreneur. Which is fair - he lost his company. What's amusing is how no one thinks of the VC who lost all his money and got nothing in return except a certificate of "You don't know how to make a good investment".     An entrepreneur can pivot however many times he wants and still make it all sound glorious. It takes a VC years and years to prove he's a good investor and gain respect in the market.     From the little I have seen, read, and experienced, the zeitgeist has a soft and encouraging attitude towards entrepreneurs and that's a good thing. But it also seems very unforgiving of VCs without caring to know their side of the story. And now that startups have seeped into pop culture, you see that the entertainment shows tend to veer towards portraying VC stereotypes as well.     The founder works hard, the founder has stress. No airtime goes into showing how hard the VC works, he is just a ruthless moneyman who instantly grows devil horns if he doesn't see merit in the hard-working founder's unscalable idea.     I won't blame those propagating these stereotypes alone though. The VCs are to blame for this as well. They don't explain themselves because they think there's too much at stake for them to indulge or entertain perception-makers. They think it's better to focus on what their job is - looking for those who want to and can change the world, and helping them do it.     I know it must be hard for them to live with all the unwarranted hate that comes their way. It's harder for their partner who's a silent spectator of all their suffering and can do nothing (much) about it despite knowing the truth.        

