URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/OlympicsThe-sublime-and-the-ridiculous-at-Rio/articleshow/53790055.cms

Title : Olympics:The sublime and the ridiculous at Rio - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vijay Goel,sundayET,Sakshi Malik,Saina Nehwal,Rio,promotions,place,Leander Paes,Commonwealth Games,Abhinav Bindra

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.15 AM IST

Document ID : 976

Content:
 By Shamya Dasgupta   Abhinav Bindra tweeted on Tuesday: "Each medal costs the UK £5.5 million. That's the sort of investment needed. Let's not expect much until we put systems in place at home."     Sometime before Bindra's tweet, MoS for Sports Vijay Goel posted a photograph where he was pulling towards him an evidently broken Vikas Krishan, who had just lost his 75 kg quarterfinal bout. Krishan's eyes were closed, his face twisted in a grimace. Goel had a bright smile on.     This was around the time a report about a gentleman named Pawandeep Tony Singh went viral. He is a radiologist who was in Rio de Janeiro as India's chief medical officer. Radiology, noble profession though it is, has nothing to do with sports injuries or their treatment. Then there was the clinching bit that explained it all: Dr Tony is the son of Sardar Tarlochan Singh, vice-president of the Indian Olympic Association. The rest — Dr Tony mostly hung out at the hotel pools, started drinking at 3 pm every day, and prescribed Combiflam to everyone, said reports — was only to be expected. Similarly, it would be odd if Goel — a career politician who happens to be the sports minister at the moment — were to actually scout around for solutions to the Great Indian Sports Crisis and not treat the Rio trip as holiday.     There's more, much more from Rio — prime among them the story of Goel and his cronies being told off by the organisers for treating the Olympics zone like Chandni Chowk (where Goel has run amuck over the years) and trying to get in everywhere without accreditation.    The Game-changers   At the end of it all, India won next to nothing — yes, PV Sindhu and Sakshi Malik were out of this world, magnificent, true champions— but it still added up to only two medals at the Rio Games. Today, on the last day, Yogeshwar Dutt, a London Games bronze winner, holds out hope of a final medal, in the men's 65 kg freestyle wrestling event. Every morning bar two, the headlines read "X crashes out" and "medal hopes end in Y", and it was like waking up in the 1980s or the '90s. The last few editions of the Olympics were different. India won three medals in Beijing in 2008 and six in London in 2012. In between, in the Commonwealth Games in 2010, India finished second behind Australia.    The Big Fat Mess   Things had changed. The question before Rio was whether India would be able to top six, maybe even make it to double figures. Before the Olympics, in the usual quadrennial Bharat Mata Ki Jai hype and media-engineered hoopla, it's easy to be hopeful. Dipa Karmakar, Dutee Chand, Lalita Babar and others are brought out for the parade, and we don't look beyond them. But that's where we need to look: behind the scenes.     The Gymnastics Federation of India is in a shambles because of a never-ending and extremely awful power struggle among administrators. It is safe to say that Karmakar owes them not an iota of her fourth-place-by-a-whisker. Then there is boxing, one of the fastest growing sports in India through the 2000s. Infighting among its officials has meant that a sport where India was on its way to becoming a mini-superpower lies in shreds. Abhay Singh Chautala — Devi Lal's son, former chief of the Indian Boxing Federation and currently facing trial in a disproportionate assets case — was in Rio as well.     I read that the Special CBI judge was wondering just how Chautala managed to leave the country. Oh, it's all a big, fat mess, like so many things in India. There is, of course, yet another side to that mess. If we leave out Sindhu, Malik, Karmakar and a handful of others, like Dattu Baban Bhokanal and Babar, and the Indian men's hockey team, which is in the middle of an unexpected and very heartening revival, it would be hard to argue (although I would like to) that the Indian athletes at Rio always did their best. Anyone can have an off day, but Indians seem to have them more often than others.     Blame it if you must on the sporting culture here: the lack of incentives and infrastructure, and the acceptance of mediocrity. Most of our athletes come from lower middle class, and for many of them sports is perhaps the only hope. The ultimate goal of many Olympic athletes in India is a government job, i.e. security for the family. It means a regular salary that allows them to continue being athletes and rising up the ladder in their chosen discipline — and, as a result, in their workplaces. When that is the be-all and end-all of their existence, can anyone expect more? The occasional appearance at the Olympics? Call it a perk of the job.     Then, again, in Haryana, where promotions are directly linked to performance, the system has proven effective. This is because the job incentive is linked to a larger ecosystem of support and infrastructure, of a positive sporting culture, so to speak.     We cannot place the blame for Rio at the door of our sportspersons. Sure, Leander Paes showed a staggering lack of professionalism by reaching Rio only a day before his firstround match, more interested in his seventh Olympics appearance milestone than the match at hand (he has even threatened to turn up for an eighth). And I think Saina Nehwal, knee injury apart, did not seem to be at her fittest. But that's as far as I am willing to go. Beyond that, the buck stops with the officialdom.     And just a little bit with us too. I'll bet not many of us will Google Lalita Babar or Dattu Baban Bhokanal even once between now and 2020.  

