URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/is-india-ready-for-a-branded-player-in-the-40-billion-religion-spirituality-market/articleshow/53399047.cms

Title : Is India ready for a branded player in the $40 billion religion & spirituality market? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,spirituality,SnapDeal,ShubhKart,Robosoft,Religion,people,Market,Jobs,India,Food,entertainment,Business,budget

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 04.11 PM IST

Document ID : 314

Content:
  Remember that guy from your group who would set up a small mandir (temple) in his house just a week before the final exams? Or that aunt from the neighbourhood who biennially distributed prasad (devotional offerings mostly in the form of a food item), singing, "Pappu paas ho gaya!" Helping with academics isn't the only use-case for God though.     Indians pray to a multitude of Gods in multiple situations: good, bad, and ugly. Even as parts of the world wage wars in the name of God and religion, other parts drive economies even as they invoke the almighty. Especially true of a multi-religious country like ours. No wonder then that religion and spirituality is approximately a Rs 2.5 lakh crore market in India (roughly $40 billion).     After the #BigFatIndianWeddings, if there's anything else we unquestionably (and unquestioningly) spend on, it's religion and spirituality. It's only a matter of time before international publications include priests among the world's more lucrative jobs.     In such a scenario, it was a no-brainer for an entrepreneur or three to spread their wings in this direction as well. Startups (like Shubhpuja) provide services ranging from arranging a puja and pandit, besides offering consultations in astrology, numerology, and Vastu. Then you have players like onlineprasad that, as the name suggests, saves you the bother of standing in queues for prasad, with segmentation by geography and deity.     In this slew of services, there's of course an established ecommerce player for all things religious and spiritual: Shubhkart. Founded in 2014, Shubhkart is both an online as well as an offline player that sells products across 18 sub categories; and around 200 puja items and merchandise via modern retail stores.    Add to Shubhkart?  Shubhkart was launched by Aditya Pittie, CEO of the Pittie Group that has businesses across food & wellness, entertainment, and realty among others. So, what makes this startup with a family-led seed funding of Rs 1.5 crore ($200,000 approx) so special?    For starters, it is the only branded player for this segment with such a wide offering, especially in a market hugely dominated by unorganised players barring a few Cycle and Mangaldeep Agarbatti brands (Incense sticks incidentally account for Rs 10,000 crore of the Rs 2.5 lakh crore market.)    Why do you need a branded product-line for this category though? "Well, people veer towards branded things in any category," says Damodar Mall, CEO - grocery at Reliance Retail.     "Branding brings consistency in product and packaging. It builds trust. The consumer will always be careful with unbranded products, but she assumes a certain standard from a branded one. And that's the reason people have increasingly started buying fruits and vegetables from our stores rather than off roadside vendors. They know Reliance Fresh won't be growing fruits by the railway tracks," Mall adds.     That explains why 200 Shubhkart products are available in 50 Reliance Retail stores across Western India.     We ask Mall how important religion and spirituality is as a category for the supermarket chain. "I don't stand in judgement of that. As a retailer, my dharma is to increase choice for the consumer, provide her ease of shopping," he says.     He lets consumer take that call. And basis consumer behaviour, the store keeps or removes a set of products. And at least someone's prayers are being answered considering the fact Shubhkart is moving to the chain's stores in the North and South as well. "By early next week, Shubhkart will be present across 150 Reliance Stores across India," says Pittie.    Online, Pittie has seen 20% quarterly growth rate of traffic over the last two years. 40% comes from repeat customers. He's allocated a tentative budget of Rs 7 crore for marketing of Shubhkart and expects to garner a business worth Rs 15 crore (online) and Rs 30 crore (offline) by next fiscal year. Plans in the offing include offering a listing of pandits for various religious services.     Questions abound about Shubhkart and its model: Why opt for a standalone site instead of being a section across various already well established ecommerce portals? Is the offering something that is unavailable online? What is the value add? Pittie answers all our queries: "We are focused on religion and spirituality. So, while this will be a sub-sub-sub category within Snapdeal where you'll have about 30,000 products, we offer you close to a lakh products with more than just the basic product price and description. We offer consultation. Our teams are better equipped to guide you through your purchase."     As a consumer, L Bhat, VP - marketing communications at Robosoft, also prefers specialist sites for this segment. "Lot more possibilities of segmentation and customisation there," he says, concurring with what Pittie claims to offer via Shubhkart. There's good scope for a branded chain in the religion and spirituality segment, Bhat says, provided the player can cater to the sub-segments across different religious and spiritual sects in the country. No one size/product fits all, even when it comes to all things God. Let's see how well Shubhkart takes that into consideration.      

