URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/auto/news/industry/scrapping-old-car-for-new-ones-may-give-excise-relief/articleshow/53747955.cms

Title : Scrapping old car for new ones may give excise relief - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Road transport,Nitin gadkari,Finance minister

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 03.18 AM IST

Document ID : 21

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The road transport and highways ministry will push for excise duty relief for people scrapping their cars bought before April 2005 for new ones under the government's proposed vehicle fleet modernisation policy. Nitin Gadkari, the minister for road transport and highways, along with his senior officials will meet Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on August 24 to seek a reduction in excise duty on new cars to half the regular rate for those scrapping their old vehicles, a senior transport ministry official told ET.     Under the proposed Voluntary Vehicular Fleet Modernisation Policy (V-VMP), vehicles bought before April 2005 or those below BS IV emission standards will be eligible for incentives if replaced by new ones. According to government estimates, the programme may help replace 28 million vehicles with less-polluting ones, thereby reducing vehicular emission.     The policy proposes three incentives for the cars scrapped — half the regular excise duty at the time of purchase of the new car, fair value for the scrap and discounts from automobile manufacturers. These incentives are likely to reduce the cost of a new vehicle for the buyer by 15% on an average. The road transport and highways ministry had recently released the first draft of the proposed V-VMP. The policy recommends complete excise exemption for state transport buses to encourage public transport to shift to newer and higher capacity buses which will also help decongest roads. "The decision of excise exemption is to be taken by the finance ministry. We'll be pushing for it as there's no other way to take polluting vehicles off the road," the official said.     Under the plan, those opting for V-VMP will have to deposit documents relating to the vehicle at the recycling centre. After verification, the owner will get a VVMP certificate and the price for the scrap. He has to provide the certificate to the dealer while buying the new vehicle to avail of the discount.     According to the ministry, the policy has the potential to reduce vehicular emission by 25-30% and save oil consumption by 3.2 billion litres a year. "The reduction in oil consumption by new vehicles will help save nearly Rs 7,000 crore in oil import," said the concept note on the policy floated by the transport ministry.  

