URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/microfinance-space-still-has-long-way-to-go-but-be-selective-mayuresh-joshi-angel-broking/articleshow/53756030.cms

Title : Microfinance space still has long way to go but be selective: Mayuresh Joshi, Angel Broking - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Zee Learn,Wealth,UltraTech,State Bank Of India,Retail,microfinance,Market,KNR Constructions,India,Grasim,et now,earnings,Coal India,Bharat Electronics,Angel Broking

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 04.53 PM IST

Document ID : 620

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Mayuresh Joshi, Fund Manager, Angel Broking, says looking at AB Birla group, if one really has to take long-term bet, it should be on individual stories within the group. Edited excerpts   ET Now: What about microfinance space? The run-up was too soon, too fast. There is a bit of a correction that has come in as well. Are you telling your clients to go out and buy into these names or stay away from the time being and why?  Mayuresh Joshi: It is believed that the microfinance space as a whole has a long way to go and even if you look at the asset base at this point of time, there is a huge improvement that can be seen in the overall asset base. I think the run-up has been quite huge in terms of price movements for the last few weeks and quarters. The numbers have been supportive but again I think one really needs to be extremely selective within this space constituting valuations at least from FY17-18 perspective.  ET Now: Where are you on AB Nuvo in particular? A lot of people are also of the belief that maybe the deal could be relooked at, AB Nuvo shareholder might oppose, Grasim shareholders might oppose. So there is mixed views on what happens here but where are you on these stocks? They are large names which have fallen 10%, 12%, 15% as the case may be, both Grasim and AB Nuvo?  Mayuresh Joshi: Again they have moved up substantially over the last few months and if you look at their individual business models, it is better to probably take exposure in individual companies within the space itself. For instance, the kind of move that we have seen in UltraTech within this universe, the kind of utilisation levels that one really expects to come through over the next few quarters and the kind of realisations improvements that one really sees on the balance sheet and the kind of capacity expansions that we are seeing will hold the stock in good stead. Similarly, other companies within this group have to be studied individually. The telecom company Idea clearly is under pressure because of data realisations going down. So largely, I think if one really has to take long-term bet, I think it would be individual stories within these groups and again I cement as a story particularly UltraTech is something that I continue to remain optimistic about. Investors holding on to a stock like UltraTech should continue holding.   ET Now: Talking about PSUs, across the board, PSUs are rallying in the session. Yesterday, ET Now of course did a story that a further stake sale in Coal India is on the cards maybe in about four to five months time. Is is that really trickling in in terms of sentiment that the government may look at divesting more stake in some of the other listed PSUs?  Mayuresh Joshi: I think whenever the topic of divestment comes through, the market obviously gives a negative reaction to the stocks and largely this is because of the kind of discount factor that one really expects to come through. But again, the timing of all these issues is going to be extremely crucial and critical in terms of how the developments pan out.  Secondly, I think one really needs to be a little bit stock specific within the space itself and though divestments might take place in a few PSU names, I think it can be value accretive going forward as well because I think individual business models can be extremely supportive to the government reform processes and policies that are probably getting implemented and followed at this point of time.  Largely, I think the divestments need to be understood more carefully, what is coming through at what time periodicities and largely I think it will be a stock specific action that one will really see. But within the space itself, there is a defence play like Bharat Electronics. I think the space itself looks very interesting over the next few years. Again I think the kind of opportunities that will come up in terms of order wins can be quite stupendous. I think keeping a positive view on stocks like Bharat Electronics which can be a probable divestment candidate and any probably fall on to that stock can be taken as an accumulate opportunity.  ET Now: There is a bit of an uptick in the sugar space today, what has been your stance there because after having the last few days wherein there has been a lot of price damage, today they have moved up almost together. What is the house call on sugar?  Mayuresh Joshi: Largely, if you look at the numbers specifically from the last sugar season to this season, the carry over inventory was pretty large but again if you look at the kind of positive mood in terms of the two-year cycle playing positively for the sugar industry I think the carry over inventory expected over the next couple of years are going to react positively in terms of lesser inventory carried forward.  Secondly, I think what happens with the Brazilian output is a very key parameter to be watched out for because that is the key determining trend in terms of how the international raw sugar prices pan out.  Thirdly, probably the kind of inventory gains that we have seen in balance sheet for most numbers of sugar companies have largely got gestated. So I think they will not be able to carry forward these gains in the corpus to come. So it will be more operating performance and what kind of FRP and prices we witness specifically with UP elections around the corner. I think one really needs to wait for significant declines because the stocks have moved up significantly but the sugar cycle is expected to remain positive over the next two years. So I think wait for declines on to sugar counters and again I think one really needs to be stock specific and specifically look at companies which are operating out of the north of the country.   

