URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/artificial-intelligence-deep-learning-is-not-the-ultimate-fix/articleshow/53090047.cms

Title : Artificial Intelligence: Deep learning is not the ultimate fix - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : technology,silver,Microsoft,Google,features,artificial intelligence,Apple

Date : Jul 07, 2016, 06.01 AM IST

Document ID : 199

Content:
 By Kailash Nadh    These are exciting times for developments in mainstream artificial intelligence (AI). Self-driving cars are hitting the streets, companies like Microsoft, Apple and Google are integrating evergrowing "intelligence" into their services, and some of them making their cutting-edge AI tools available to the public. While AI as a term is familiar to the industry, deep learning is what's been in the limelight lately.     Like numerous other techniques, deep learning is a subset of machine learning, which in turn falls under the much broader umbrella of AI, all of whose broad goals are to make computers do things outside of the box of precise programmed instructions.     The idea itself is decades old, but resurgence in research and sheer advances in raw computational power over the last decade have made deep learning an attractive computational tool.     In fact, deep learning in itself is a broad term encompassing a number of techniques. Most commonly, it refers to the use of specialised computer programs called neural networks — computational representations of points resembling biological neurons in the brain — stacked in (deep) layers, where information flows between the layers.     Such a program can be fed large amounts of information — for instance, images, from which they automatically detect and learn implicit features that they can later use to make predictions about novel information. For example, a deep learning program built for facial recognition can be fed a number of images of faces, from which it can automatically pick up and "learn" features such as contours, eyes, nose etc, without the need to tell the program where these features are in every individual image.     When a new image with a previously unseen face, even at an odd angle, is presented to the program, it can detect the face by using the knowledge of abstract facial features it previously learnt. This is different from traditional computer programs that can only work with information of very specific kinds with well-defined structures.     Of course, this is a highly simplified gist of deep learning, but the concept can be applied to many kinds of information, not just images. More recently, in a high-profile demonstration, Google's AlphaGo became the first computer program to beat a human player at Go, a complex board game. It applied deep learning techniques to study tens of millions of Go games and used the knowledge to play the game and beat the opponent, live.     While deep-learning programs are incredible feats of engineering and promise great advancements in AI, they are not silver bullets that can be applied to all problems.     For instance, AlphaGo cannot suddenly start playing chess out of the box, or a deep-learning face-recognition program cannot just start recognising voices. These programs are highly specific to their scopes and require a lot of tuning and trial and error by humans. One can, however, hope that the exciting pace of such breakthroughs, deep learning or not, will shed light on the mysteries of intelligence itself, and ultimately pave way to a general-purpose AI.     (The author is head of technology at Zerodha and has a PhD in artificial intelligence)  

