URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/we-expect-profit-and-top-line-growth-to-improve-in-coming-quarters-sam-ghosh-reliance-capital/articleshow/53719235.cms

Title : We expect profit and top line growth to improve in coming quarters: Sam Ghosh, Reliance Capital - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sam Ghosh,Reliance Capital,crop insurance,aum

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 12.02 PM IST

Document ID : 643

Content:
 In this interview with ET Now, Sam Ghosh, ED and Group CEO of Reliance Capital talks about the growth number for ths businesses, outlook and much more. Edited excerpts:   What has led to the income from operations growth at 47 per cent, which areas contributed most to the top line growth?   Top line has grown substantially at Rs 3,700 crore which is nearly 50 per cent growth. Profit is up by 3 per cent at Rs 207 crore. Last year we also got dividend from life insurance company. We did not get a dividend this year because we are consolidating life. If we exclude that dividend, our profit is actually up 33 per cent which is roughly in line with income growth and profit growth. Obviously, all our businesses have contributed towards this growth.     Our commercial finance business has shown significant growth in AUM which is up by over 15 per cent at Rs 17,000 crore. Profit is also up over 30 per cent at about Rs 57 crore. In housing finance, our assets under management have grown by 30 per cent to Rs 8,300 crore. Profit is at Rs 30 crore. Our asset management business has shown healthy profit of Rs 122 crore, up nearly 13 per cent to 14 per cent and average assets under management has also grown to Rs 1,67,000 crore. If you look at total assets under management, today we are nearly at Rs 3 lakh crore.     Our life insurance business has shown steady new business premium. Renewable premiums have grown at nearly 3 per cent to about Rs 450 crore. General insurance has also shown a growth of about 5 per cent and is at Rs 900 crore. Profits are up 23 per cent at about Rs 36 crore. So, all our businesses have shown profits. Last year, life insurance had shown a loss. This year it showed a breakeven and even broking and distribution is showing a breakeven. So all our businesses have started performing and we expect profits as well as top line growth to improve quarter after quarter.    What is the outlook ahead on premium and profit growth for your life insurance and general insurance business, especially life insurance business because there is so much activity happening there in terms of deal flow?   In life insurance, our focus contines to be on traditional products, mainly on non-participating products because that gives us highest new business margins. Our new business margins are nearly 28 per cent to 29 per cent which is one of the highest in the industry. We do not focus on unit link business because we do not have a bank. However, our focus is to try and bring in some banks and this will happen in next couple of quarters. After that only we can sell unit link business. So the top line growth will be muted in the next few quarters till the bank assurance kicks in, however, ongoing business through agency will obviously continue.     In our general insurance business, our top line has shown a 5 per cent growth at about Rs 900 crore, however, going forward you will find that there will be a 15 per cent to 20 per cent growth in our general insurance premium primarily because we are going more and more retail. Our motor business is growing. We are also focussing on weather. A lot of our competitors have been focussing on it and we have not. Weather insurance/crop insurance will continue to grow. So we can show fairly significant growth in top line. Our combined ratio has also come down to about 114 per cent now. This takes into account our long tail business. If you take that out, our combined ratio is below 100 per cent now.    What is your outlook on your AUM going forward, which segments will drive the growth?   Our total assets and average assets under management in the mutual fund is Rs 1,67,000 crore. Over 50 per cent of it is in equity AUMs, the balance is in retail debt. Retail debt as well as equity AUM are continuing growth and this will help us grow our business. We expect that equity AUM will continue to grow for the next few quarters. We have the largest assets under manamgent below the top 15 cities. SIP is growing at over 30 per cent for us, we have nearly 1.4 million SIPs and that is helping drive equity growth.    Will you apply for on-tap banking license, and if so, what extra opportunity do you see as a bank?   Banking guidelines are very clear that industrial houses cannot apply for a banking licence. Reliance Capital is a part of an industrial house. So we will not be looking at applying for banking licence other than being part of a consortium whereby we may be a 10 per cent investor. This is one thought that our chairman has at this point and we are exploring this facet.    Are you looking out for any other inorganic growth opportunities in individual business level or a group level?   We own 100 per cent of our general insurance business. We have been looking to bring in a partner and that focus will continue. However, in all other businesses, we are open to acquisitions and are looking at what will compliment us. We have already brought in Goldman Sachs for our asset management business. We will see if there is any other opportunity in the market - be it in broking business, insurance businesses or any other. If there is a good opportunity and it helps compliment our portfolio, we will certainly look at that.  

