URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/the-ad-code-post-brexit-uk-swept-by-nationalism-us-trump-ed-by-retro-nationalism/articleshow/53616572.cms

Title : The ad code: Post-Brexit UK swept by nationalism; US Trump-ed by retro-nationalism - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 05.19 AM IST

Document ID : 301

Content:
At 4 AM on 24th June 2016, while #Brexit was trending, former UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage made a speech: "Dare to dream that the dawn is breaking on an independent United Kingdom... this will be a victory for real people, a victory for ordinary people, a victory for decent people... And today honesty, decency and belief in nation, I think now is going to win. And we will have done it without having to fight, without a single bullet being fired, we'd have done it by damned hard work on the ground... Let June 23 go down in our history as our independence day."  Farage's words didn't sit well with 'Stay' advocates acutely aware of the imperialistic overtones in the 'Leave' campaign and inherent idiocy of Farage's speech.  Columnist Yasmin Ahmed wrote in The Independent: "Before we associate our EU membership with colonisation, we should think long and hard about what a country celebrating their independence really means. The EU didn't invade Britain, enslave the British people, take away the country's resources and destroy established societies, traditions and culture. Britain voluntarily joined the EEC in 1973. The referendum revealed that there is another world beyond conservative and liberal politics."  Ahmed continues in her article for The Independent, "The results were influenced by nationalism and race. Hence we had a well-educated Etonian leading a campaign which disliked "economic experts" and the "elite class" and adopted Ukip's and Trump's rhetoric of "wanting our country back"." Soon after Brexiteers started celebrating and news of xenophobic attacks in the UK began trickling in on social media, Donald J Trump, upon arriving in Scotland, tweeted: "Place is going wild over the vote. They took their country back, just like we will take America back. No games!" Never mind the fact that, as @sueperkins pointed out to @realdonaldtrump, "Scotland voted remain, you weapons-grade plum".  Rise of retro-nationalism What we are seeing now is, what Future Brands' Santosh Desai calls, "an attempt to reverse professed democratic ideals by use of democratic will; a pushback. The form it's taking is a return to an imagined ideal state where the problems of today didn't exist, an aggressive retro-nationalism going back to the memory of the nation."  This unique blend of nationalism and populism is sweeping across multi-cultural, advanced democracies like the UK and US. Creator of global organization Good Country (which helps "to change how our leaders run our countries") and the Global Vote, policy advisor Simon Anholt calls it "inward-looking populism". Social and economic instability, and "the grotesque mismanagement of the forces of globalization", have created fear and anger among the people, which has provided an opportunity for politicians to gain large swaths of followers by echoing their sentiments. "The causes of the fear and anger are global (migration, terrorism, and economic uncertainty) and so the populist response is equally global (Brexit, Trump, Erdogan, etc). It's a struggle between those who find their comfort looking backwards and inwards, and those who find more meaning in looking forwards and outward. And the big problem is that there is no coherent counter-narrative to this surge of inward-looking populism."  The ruling and the ruled Adman and author Dave Trott believes the Brexit vote was merely a choice by working class people that they would be better off if they governed themselves, rather than being governed by Brussels. "Plus the fact that the UK government (and the liberal elite) have consistently ignored any unfashionable views that the working class might have." Which explains why the results of referendums and the inexplicable rise of unlikely Presidential-candidates leave one "shocked" and panicked.  Dogged faith in the supremacy of the system and that any counter-view is peripheral, at best; the "ruling classes" are programmed to not give these fundamental shifts in public sentiment much credence. Says Desai, "They see what happens in Egypt through rose-tinted lenses of a people's uprising, but it doesn't have to play out as a lofty tribute to democracy. Because the dominant elite are conditioned to think of the world in those terms, they are slow to recognise a counterpoint emerging."  According to Trott, many decades of frustration with the smug ruling classes finally boiled over in Britain. He cites the example of David Cameron "a smug ex public-school boy". Current Prime Minister Theresa May, on the other hand, at least, feels like a professional. "I think the issue in the UK is much more about class and nothing to do with nationalism. But the urban elite, who control the news media, have their own agenda. They prefer to see everything through the virtue-signalling lens of their own tolerance. Which is why the working class don't trust them anymore."  The mobocracy Distrust of the "experts" and authorities is a distinctive feature of populism. In England's ex-Justice Minister and Brexiteer, Michael Gove's words, "People have had enough of experts". Competence, experience and facts have taken a back seat to feelings, sincerity, however illusionary, and rhetoric in a five-year-old's grasp of the English language.  In the US where gun violence continues to go unchecked, Desai points out, "The chances are higher of you being killed by a toddler than an Islamist terrorist was a fact that was doing the rounds: but when someone tells you that, you don't think it's significant or important since that's not what you want to feel." Trump has done well because he's clearly not a facts brandishing statesman. Frightened and angry Americans relate to Trump's brand of "shoot-from-the-hip instinct, indomitable self-belief, authoritarian manner (much like Russia's Vladimir Putin, Turkey's President Recep Erdogan and Rodrigo Duterte in Philippines), and decidedly homespun grasp of international affairs - he's "a fan of the Kurds"; Assad is "a bad guy" and other NATO members need to "earn the right for America's protection'", says Anholt. Despite credibility issues, five years ago, Hillary Clinton's ride to the White House would have had fewer roadblocks, "when the traditional deference for highly intelligent, highly competent politicians was still in evidence," he reasons. However, that traditional system is rapidly giving way to "mob rule".  Robert Kagan, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, who served in the US State Department from 1984 to 1988, wrote in his piece 'This is how fascism comes to America' for The Washington Post: "...what he (Trump) has tapped into is what the founders most feared when they established the democratic republic: the popular passions unleashed, the "mobocracy." Conservatives have been warning for decades about government suffocating liberty. But here is the other threat to liberty that Alexis de Tocqueville and the ancient philosophers warned about: that the people in a democracy, excited, angry and unconstrained, might run roughshod over even the institutions created to preserve their freedoms. As Alexander Hamilton watched the French Revolution unfold, he feared in America what he saw play out in France - that the unleashing of popular passions would lead not to greater democracy but to the arrival of a tyrant, riding to power on the shoulders of the people." That's how fascism comes everywhere.  

