URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/raised-over-rs-364-crore-from-anchor-investor-rajeev-ahuja-rbl-bank/articleshow/53767535.cms

Title : Raised over Rs 364 crore from anchor investor: Rajeev Ahuja, RBL Bank - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,technology,tech,So,Retail,Rajeev Ahuja,product,new,Market,IPO,India,in,et now,ET,distribution,capital adequacy ratio,Business,Balance Sheet

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 11.59 AM IST

Document ID : 474

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Rajeev Ahuja, Head - Strategy, RBL Bank, says they have to differentiate around very, very targeted client segments. Edited excerpts        ET Now: You planned to raise about Rs 833 crore, seeing a strong response from anchor investors as well. How much have your raised? Who are your key anchor investors?         Rajeev Ahuja:    We have raised over Rs 364 crore from the anchor and it has been an overwhelming and really high level of confidence which has been expressed in the franchise. These are a mix of both domestic and international long-term investors who have given us the confidence and have believed in the work we have done till now and obviously they have a strong belief in India and the financial services story in general. So, I think this is an important milestone. We have always raised capital in the last four-five years with marquee investors and I think this has been a big validation of the quality and the work all of us have done and the prospects of the industry and the banking market in India.        ET Now: Some investors have sold. Tell us about that. How do you plan to use the proceeds of the funds that you have raised through these stake sales and what will be your tier I as well as your capital adequacy ratio post this fund raising plan is executed?         Rajeev Ahuja:    I think perhaps very few investors who came in very early have sold. I think it is all part of the HFP but they have exited for a variety of reasons. Some of them have other considerations but that is a very small part of the initial investors. I think in the life of a bank or any company, the button keeps changing hands and we are extremely happy to have welcomed many anchor investors and we hope the next three days we get an overwhelming response. The use of proceeds is as you can well appreciate, we have grown a lot, we think there is a significant growth opportunity in all our client segments. We have to obviously keep strengthening our capital base because that is really one of the most defining characteristics of a bank. We always had high capital adequacy ratio. The use of proceeds will go in shore up the capital tier I and we have a very strong investment programme linked around balance sheet growth, client business cross sell, technology, branding, branches, network. So all of that has to be financed and this IPO is one of the first steps to do that.        ET Now: So tell us about your growth plan as well as your private sector because as a new private sector bank, how do you plan to really differentiate in terms of asset mix?         Rajeev Ahuja:    Perhaps our conviction is in the next 10 years, things will be played out very differently and as somewhat of a new bank in the market with five-six years of modern history, we think we have to differentiate ourselves around very, very targeted client segments. Building a proposition, product, service architecture to suit the needs as well as compliment that with physical networks in terms of ATMs, branches and our multi-channel distribution strategy is integral part of our growth strategy.     All of this has to be now substantially enhanced with technology. Over the last three-four years, the bank has been doing a lot of investment both internally and in partnerships. On bringing technology which is relevant, which is going to give clients a better service experience, lower the cost of operations and allow us to work and engage with clients in a more systemic manner. So technology is integral to what we do but as a bank, we believe in the motto high tech and high touch. I do not think just technology alone but technology supporting and enhancing the human element is a very, very key thesis of our operating strategy.        ET Now: You have changed your asset mix in the recent years wherein the corporate book has been reduced as well, the share of retail has gone up. The MFI book stands at about 14 odd per cent if I am not wrong. So what are the segments that you see contributing here incrementally within that mix?         Rajeev Ahuja:    Actually, I think you hit the nail right. Very early on we started building almost all our segments. As you know, we have five segments - corporate institutional, commercial, financial inclusion, agri and retail. I think all of them started getting built very early on because each of them has a different investment and gestation period. If you see the composition of our businesses over the last four-five years, the non-wholesale elements have started becoming more prominent and I think those take time in any institution building out retail whether it is rural or urban is a long-term operating strategy. I think as time goes by, the capability, capacity we have built will start playing out in terms of us building all businesses, not to say that the wholesale businesses will not grow. We just believe that the non-wholesale business, the retail businesses, the rural business which actually is very, very integral to our entire franchise which are much younger, will have a different growth trajectory. But all of them will contribute to the bottom line growth, will contribute to the top line growth and the balance sheet growth.        ET Now: If I look at your financials you do have high cost to income ratio and a high CASA ratio as well, in fact on the CASA front it is lower than other private banks, what are the plans to improve both these ratios?         Rajeev Ahuja:    So let's tackle the cost to income ratio first and I think if you have seen our track record over the last two to three years, obviously building a bank with all the requirements of technology, process, people, branches is not a one year game, it plays out over five, eight, ten years. I think that is the reflection in our cost income which you see in March 2014. It peaked at 70% plus, dropped to 62% in FY15 and is at 58.6 for FY16. And that is a reflection of many things; a reflection of the scale of operations we have built which were frontloaded, customer business throughput which is almost always a little bit of a lag, our ability to do more and more with our existing set of customers, our ability to onboard and acquire new relationships with shorter time to market and obviously fewer mistakes in building the business out.     The learning curve of building each of these businesses is quite interesting and unique. I think all of those will play out and we are quite clear that the operating leverage embedded in our franchise by way of process, people, products, customer segment. We now have over just about 1.9 million customers as of March 2016 which is a big significant jump, I mean, the opportunity to cross sell, the opportunity to engage more with them will all boil down to operating leverage. So I think that is a very critical component of the journey of every well developed bank as you see today.     On the CASA side, the build out of a franchise has to be seen again over a very long term. Our CASA has grown around 40% even as our balance sheet has been growing over the last three, four years, it has kept a pace. Obviously, percentage matter and that is again a function of time in the market, scale, branch network, the level of engagement we have and now use of technology. We think this juncture of the IPO, our branding, and the work we have done over the last three-four years should help us keep having a very high degree of engagement which could lead to better and better CASA over the long term. So all of these are embedded as part of our operating strategy and are expected to play out in a better and better fashion over the next few years.        ET Now: Your deposit book currently stands at about Rs 24000 crore and this has grown at about 50% over the last four years. Where do you see your deposit and credit will settle?         Rajeev Ahuja:    I think the way we look at it growth obviously is critical. I mean, we are a bank built for growth and I think the foreseeable future we will continue growing. I mean, I am not focused on percentages frankly, we are high growth bank, we will continue to be hopefully a high growth bank but I think we focus a lot on process. We focus a lot on creating the capability, creating the capacity and ensuring that the growth is predicated on very-very strong fundamentals of risk management, operating discipline and high degree of customer service and engagement. I think that growth has a lot more value to not just us but to our customers and hopefully, eventually to our shareholders. So I think that is the way I would kind of define our growth and our overall profile over the next three, four years.        ET Now: If we look at the valuation of the issue it has been priced at 2.2 times post issue price to book while the recent pre IPO placement itself was at Rs 195 a share. What is the rationale on the valuation front, how you figure it?         Rajeev Ahuja    : See again, I am not willing to comment on very specific on the valuation but at the end of the day, banking has a very strong secular fundamentals in India and good banks over the last 20 plus years have demonstrated that. We have put in place a very strong set of process, people, operations, technology, hopefully have demonstrated the execution over the last five year and at every stage investors have given us the confidence, given us the capital and as the anchor book which we placed last night demonstrates to you that.     I think that continues. Valuations are all a matter of what each institution is doing, what is the outlook on the banking industry, I think we are focussed on building a very high quality franchise for the very long term. And I think in that regard if you continue doing your job well and if you continue building a very strong risk management discipline, ultimately it should reflect in the valuation and what the shareholders get but those are the fundamentals in which we believe in, which we are building the business on.  

