URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-pitches-skype-for-aadhar/articleshow/52516445.cms

Title : Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella pitches skype for 'Aadhar' - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Skype,Satya Nadella,Ravi Shankar Prasad,Mirza Ghalib,Jayant Sinha,CEO of Microsoft,Aadhar

Date :  May 31, 2016, 12.02 PM IST

Document ID : 210

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Satya Nadella, the India-born CEO of Microsoft, had a word of praise for the large community of developers and entrepreneurs in India and said the US software giant will like to have a deeper engagement with them.     The company is also understood to have suggested to the government to engage its Skype setup in the unique identification programme 'Aadhaar'.     Nadella, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also communications & IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, said Indians are fuelling innovation both within the country and outside.     "It's so inspiring for me to come here to see this broad spectrum of student developers, entrepreneurs, artists and even some big brands, e-commerce companies who are all changing the landscape of India and thereby , the world," Nadella said in keynote address at Microsoft's 'Tech For Good, Ideas for India' event.     He said that it is a "privilege" to be "a platform underneath this Indian success".     "Every time I come here, I go back energised. It's infectious to see the creativity here. It's important to dream big and create big," Nadella said after a meeting with Microsoft developers, a select set of entrepreneurs and students.     "Our mission is to empower every person and organisation on the planet to achieve more.It's not about celebrating our technologies. It's about celebrating technologies that you all in India create. In fact, I want us to be the platform creators that foster ingenuity of what is happening in India."     This is Nadella's third visit to the country since he took over as Microsoft CEO in February 2014. In December, he was in Mumbai and had also visited THub in Hyderabad.     Nadella quoted poet Mirza Ghalib, "Hazaaron khwahishen aisi ke har khwahish pe dam nikle, Bahut niklay mere armaan, lekin phir bhi kam nikle", and encouraged youngsters in the audience to be bold and ambitious.     "I learn something new, there are so many layers there. My interpretation of that is it's not just your dreams being fulfilled, it is your ability to dream that is worth dying for. It is a source of inspiration."     Talking about the changing landscape of technology , Nadella said the "idea of conversations as a platform" is a transformative change in computing. "When you change the way you see the world, you change the world you see."     Minister of state for finance Jayant Sinha, who was also present at the event, said technology is a platform of growth for India. "If you innovate in India for India, you are going to be able to innovate for the world and India then can become the entrepreneurial engine for the next 6 billion people on the planet just like the US is the entrepreneurial engine for the top one billion people. That's the opportunity we have, and that is India's economic future," he stressed.  

