URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/how-to-design-a-website-when-you-dont-know-how-to/articleshow/53569947.cms

Title : How to design a website when you don't know how to - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : website,Shiksha,Rajiv Sodhi,photography,Navigation,guru,GoDaddy

Date :  Aug 06, 2016, 12.06 PM IST

Document ID : 717

Content:
 By Rajiv Sodhi    It is safe to say that the Internet has revolutionized how businesses and their customers interact. When people want to find something, almost unequivocally, they search for it on the Internet.     In today's connected world, search engines have become more like the gatekeepers of the world's information. With so many people now searching online to find what they are looking for, it is practically mandatory for your business to be present online to be discoverable. Without a website for your business, unfortunately, you are invisible to a world full of growth opportunities.     A few years ago, the thought of building one's own website was daunting and most preferred to offload that task to someone else. However, today websites are no longer an expensive or complex proposition, and with advancement in technology and choices of companies, there are plenty of tools out there that help make basic website building almost as easy as writing an email.     So how does one get started? Here are a few useful tips that can help you get organized so building your website from scratch is a piece of cake.    Start with a plan    The first thing to do when building a website is to develop a plan. Before moving forward, think about what you want your website to do, and decide what your "dream website" should look like and what it should display. Make sure you are planning your site to match your goals.    Begin with a name    Every website needs a domain name, and you can begin by getting a name that describes you and your business. Choosing a domain name is similar to choosing a company name - it requires a lot of thought and consideration. Your domain name is your identity on the web; you want to make sure you choose a name that fits your business, and is also easy to find and promote. If you already have a name for your business, try to purchase the corresponding domain name. If the domain name is already taken, you can try to purchase it from the owner or get creative by using new generic top-level domains - like .photography, .shiksha and .guru - that offer a great opportunity to register your business name with a description of your product or even your location.    Choose the right provider    Some providers specialize just in online tools that might help you build a site. Others will provide you with a variety of integrated online tools and solutions, including domain name registration, website building and security tools. Ensure that your provider has 24/7 customer support, as inevitably there will be times you will want to speak with someone on the phone. You can also check for the availability of marketing and productivity tools that can help your online business grow.    Opt for a site builder    If looking at internet code seems intimidating, today there are easy-to-use tools available to create beautiful looking websites. Some website builders let you build your website visually using a simple drag and drop model for text and images. Website building providers often include website hosting, so you can build and host your website all in one place. You can start by choosing a professionally designed template and then replacing the sample text and images with your own to showcase your business. Technology today makes it easy for you to build a website in your preferred language whether it is in Hindi, English, Marathi or Tamil!     Set up an online store. If your objective is to sell online, just building a website may not be enough. An ecommerce website is an imperative. With a professional, impactful, yet affordable, online storefront, businesses can have exponential reach and the ability to tap into a vast customer base. Selling online is easier than you think. The most easiest and expedient way to get your online store up and running is using a templated ecommerce store available these days in just one quick download and installation. Ecommerce website packages include an online shop website theme, product pages, shopping cart, payment processing feature and hosting for the site. Instead of building your store piece by piece, with an online store builder you can install the whole store at once!    Get designing    There are no rules when it comes to website design; it is all about how you want to tell the story about your business online. To help avoid common mistakes and pitfalls of websites, keep the following tips in mind for more impactful results:    Keep it clean:  For more professional-looking websites, less is more. Decide what information about your small business is most important to your users and focus on displaying that message on the home page. Additional information and images about your products and services can be included on other pages and linked to from the home page.    Keep the site uncluttered:  Your business story should be clear to a visitor within the first 10 seconds of viewing your site. Feel free to use whitespace, choose a simple colour palette and choose only one or two clear fonts throughout the site.    Easy-to-use navigation:  If you want visitors to explore your website, you need to make it easy for them to navigate. Keep your navigation simple and easy to recognize. Make sure the options are clear and intuitive for a diverse audience to understand how to use, as some of your visitors may come from other countries.    Content matters:  What your website says is just as important as how it's said. Make sure the text on your site presents accurate and helpful information about your small business. It should include information about your products and services, prices, current practices, contact information, etc. - and be of help to your customers.    Variety of devices:  Today's customers will view and use your site from a variety of devices, from mobile phones and tablets to laptops and desktops. When considering how to design a website, make sure you also consider how your website will be viewed on a variety of devices.     Building your website is easier than you might think. With the many options available today, you can build your dream website and be ready for the world to see in no time. With a little forethought and good planning, you can create a site that will be an asset to your small business - for a long time to come.    The author is vice president and managing director, GoDaddy India and Australia.   

