URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/ites/malaysias-astro-runs-into-rough-weather-in-india/articleshow/53644129.cms

Title : Malaysia’s Astro runs into rough weather in india - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : TTN Ventures,TTN Digital,TO THE NEW Digital,Malaysia,Astro

Date :  Aug 11, 2016, 06.33 AM IST

Document ID : 144

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Malaysia's Astro Group has become embroiled in another dispute with a portfolio company in India that's also accusing it of not paying its dues worth several crore rupees.     Minority stakeholders in the Singapore-and India-based TO THE NEW Digital are exploring a management buyout of Astro's entire 85 per cent stake in the company over the dispute.     The company is a subsidiary of TO THE NEW Ventures, which also operates ecommerce brand American Swan and digital video network #fame. Astro has invested about $60 million (Rs 400 crore) in TTN Ventures, including about Rs 80 crore in TTN Digital, a provider of digital marketing, technology and content solutions.     Spokespersons for TTN Digital said the Malaysian investor has not paid the company for the technology and digital marketing services it provided.     They also accused Astro of reneging on what it said were funding commitments. The total amount in dispute is about Rs 23 crore. "We approached Astro about two weeks back to discuss the possibility of a management buyout of their stake in TO THE NEW Digital. However, we are yet to get any response from them till date," said Raman Mittal, chief marketing officer at TTN Ventures.     "While our first preference is to obviously resolve the situation through meaningful discussions, we will consider taking the legal route if the need arises," he said. Mittal declined to disclose how much the company's management was willing to shell out for Astro's stake, only saying that the offer was "in line with the market sentiment prevailing currently".     The dispute between Astro and TTN Digital comes a little less than two months after ET reported that the Malaysian investor was engaged in a battle with another portfolio company, GETIT Infoservices, which owns online classifieds Ask-Me and ecommerce store AskMebazaar.     Minority stakeholders in Ask-Me Group, in which Astro owns about 90 per cent stake, have accused the Malaysian investor of not clearing dues of about Rs 300 crore. Astro, which had first invested in TTN Digital in 2012, said it did not owe an "unlimited obligation" to fund any company indefinitely.     "To date, Astro Overseas Limited has invested more than $60 million into TTNV, of which more than $25 million was provided as a working capital loan despite continued underperformance of most of its investments," a spokeswoman representing Astro said in an email reply.     "It is highly unlikely that AOL will be able to fully recover its investments in the company." As for the management buyout offer, Astro said it was fundamentally flawed. "It does not include a funding plan supported by a credible backer. Instead, the MBO offer requires AOL to continue funding the businesses which are heading toward insolvency.    AOL is keen to exit the company if the founders/promoters are willing to infuse funds, or identify any new investors as part of their MBO proposal, to keep it as a going concern," the company said in the email.     "No investor is identified right now as the company is profitable. We will endeavour to pay Astro through internal cash flows and get an investor over the next couple of years," Mittal said.     He added that securing third-party funding was an issue because Astro has a majority stake. "No investor will come into a company to where the existing backer holds an 85 per cent stake," he said.  

