URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/want-to-be-productive-in-office-adopt-these-activities-in-your-free-time/articleshow/53645889.cms

Title : Want to be productive in office? Adopt these activities in your free time - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stress at work,humour,creativity,Baking,articulate thoughts

Date : Aug 11, 2016, 11.25 AM IST

Document ID : 271

Content:
  Recent research out of San Francisco State University shows that one can become better at work if you use your time outside the office wisely. After conducting studies on employees who self-rated or were rated by co-workers on job performance, the researchers concluded that people with creative hobbies outside of work feel more relaxed and in control in their off hours and are more likely to be helpful to co-workers. They are also creative in their approach towards solving work problems compared to those without these hobbies.     One study found that employees who reported engaging fairly often in creative hobbies also had a 15 per cent to 30 per cent edge on occasional hobbyists when it came to performance rankings.     According to the researchers, having a creative outlet could provide an opportunity to discover new skills, which could also be helpful in the workplace. They suggested that companies could even benefit from encouraging their employees to consider such activities outside of work. Here are a few examples of hobbies that you can consider.    1.  Dance often requires choreography, which involves designing sequences of steps and movements.    2.  While some cooks stick entirely to the recipe, others experiment with ingredients and methods to construct their masterpieces.    3.  Writing poetry impacts one's ability to articulate thoughts.    4.  Many baking enthusiasts will tell you that baking has a calming influence, and helps in recovering from stress at work.    5.  You have to use your imagination to envision an empty room as your beautifully decorated sanctuary.    6.  Crosswords and puzzles require you to connect different thoughts, which are the key elements of creativity.    7. Humour often involves suspending reality, which is key to creativity.    8.  Turning a blank canvas into a work of art means generating new possibilities and seeing things differently.    9.  Song writers could let out steam through music. It's a cathartic release of work strain.    10.  Photographers engage in creative activities that are similar to their experiences at work because of the shared knowledge, skills, and abilities.    11.  Playing games often requires sensing what's askew, making guesses and testing and revising them.  

