URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-itc-lightened-up-d-st-as-tata-motors-hdfc-bled/articleshow/53504872.cms

Title : Mapping the market: ITC lightened up D-St as Tata Motors, HDFC bled - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Voltas,tech,tata motors hdfc,Tata Motors,Tata Communications,Tata,suzuki,stocks,services tax,sensex itc,Sensex,parliament,Open Interest,oi voltas,NSE,New Delhi,new,MR,Maruti Suzuki,Market,liquidity,ITC,in,House of Tatas,house of hdfc,HDFC,HCL Tech,HCL,Exide Industries,Dalal Street,Communications,Canara Bank,Bharat Financial

Date :  Aug 02, 2016, 04.10 PM IST

Document ID : 811

Content:
 NEW DELHI: Did somebody read the sign on Dalal Street   on Tuesday   ? It said: Never Back Down.        That's the feeling in India's investing community. Resilience seems to be the mantra of this market and going by        Tuesday's              session, it may take a lot more to get the bulls down this time, Mr Bear.       Doing away with the hyperbole a little bit, it was just that market was being a bit cautious ahead of perhaps one of the biggest days in Parliament this year when the Goods and Services Tax (GST) bill may see the light of the day.   Here's how the day unfolded on D-Street.    Tata Motors, HDFC proved a headache:    The House of Tatas and the House of HDFC ensured that Dalal Street's metal was tested to the T, as they became the biggest losers in the index. HDFC contributed 56 points to the fall while Tata Motors unleashed a 29-point cut on Sensex.               ITC - The hero of the day:                      If someone fought for our Sensex        on Tuesday        , it was one from the old guard of Sensex - ITC. The stock rose and then rose a little more to close 4.23 per cent higher for the day. It contributed 87 points to the Sensex. Take that out and the day would have looked a lot bleaker.           The other Tata had a joyous day:    Tata Communications rose 6.26 per cent in the day to be one of the biggest gainers on the BSE. The gain came with heavy volumes as the company reported better than expected Q1 results. Its Q1 net profit declined 3.5 per cent while net sales slipped 2.9 per cent.       Highs outnumbered the Lows:    The number of stocks hitting 52-week highs during the session again outnumbered those hitting 52-week lows. Seventy-five companies hit 52-week highs while 15 companies hit their 52-week lows as the easy liquidity in the market continued to fire up stocks.       Most active stocks:    The counter of Maruti Suzuki was most active on the NSE as it rallied a solid 2.49 per cent. It was followed by Bharat Financial, which slipped 8.86 per cent on profit booking. Debutant Advanced Enzymes was the third most active security, gaining 16.29 per cent.       Spurt in open interest:    Even though Bharat Financial had a bad day at office, its stock saw the biggest spurt of 47.79 per cent in open interest (OI). It was followed by HCL Tech, which saw a 40.18 per cent spurt in OI. Voltas, which has seen good interest since its Q1 numbers, saw a 35.61 per cent jump in OI. Other prominent stocks included UPL (18.40 per cent), Canara Bank (20.74 per cent) and Exide Industries (18.01 per cent).     

