URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/cons-products/liquor/alcoholic-drinks-may-get-dearer-as-sellers-asked-to-pay-tax-on-licence-fee/articleshow/53778842.cms

Title : Alcoholic drinks may get dearer as sellers asked to pay tax on licence fee - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : pwc india & ldquo,licence fee,Business,alcohol

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 02.59 AM IST

Document ID : 16

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Your favourite tipple is set to get dearer. Eagle-eyed service tax authorities have tumbled to the fact that sellers of alcohol aren't paying the levy on licence fees they pay to state governments.     Such fees became liable for the tax last year when services provided by governments or local authorities to a business entity got dropped from the negative list.     Letters have been issued to vendors asking them to register with service tax authorities and pay the levy on alcohol licence fees, said a person aware of the development. "Tax is liable on the licence fee paid for the financial year," said one such letter that was seen by ET.        Bars and restaurants serving alcohol are also likely to be covered as they can only do so after getting a licence. The vendors have to pay under the reverse charge mechanism, which means the recipient of the service is required to cough up the money.     The letters have led to some consternation as vendors will either have to absorb the tax, which is unlikely, or approach state governments to raise the maximum retail price (MRP), which is a tedious exercise. On top of that, higher prices could hurt sales.     "It's a double whammy for the industry," said a liquor company executive. "Raising prices has a direct impact on sales and if prices are not raised it would hit the bottom line... But vendors will have to ultimately pass on the tax."     While alcohol licences can cost Rs 10 lakh or multiples of that depending on type of permit, service tax is levied at 15% of the amount. Restaurants will be better placed to pass on additional cost as they are not constrained by MRP when pricing the liquor that they serve.     A change in the Finance Act last year carried an enabling provision that excluded all services provided by governments and local authorities to businesses from the negative list, save for those specifically exempted. Also excluded are those services for which the gross amount charged doesn't exceed Rs 5,000. Following the change services such as right of way, licence fees, auctions and development rights became taxable.     Awareness about the new provision is low, prompting the authorities to reach out to potential payers. The letters to vendors are aimed at informing them about the liability so that they discharge it before more serious action is contemplated.     "Currently, service tax paid under reverse charge becomes a cost for the liquor industry," said Pratik Jain, partner and leader, indirect tax, PwC India.     "This is likely to further increase under the GST (goods and services) regime, as alcohol is kept outside the ambit and rate of GST on input services may be higher than the current rate of 15%. Therefore, unless the industry is allowed to pass on the additional cost to the consumers, they would have an adverse P&L; impact."     GST, which may be put in place as early as April 1next year, will subsume several taxes and create a common market. The rates haven't been decided yet.    ET View: Bring Alcohol Under GST   The tax department's move is hardly surprising. The alcohol sector is opaque, and one of the biggest sinks of black-money in India. High rates of taxes on liquor also encourage evasion. The best way to make the sector more transparent is to bring alcohol under the goods and services tax net. Prices will drop for consumers too. Its exclusion from the goods & serves tax will lead to illegal activities, and here states should see reason.  

