URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/twenty-stocks-in-focus-on-monday-08-august-2016/articleshow/53591632.cms

Title : Twenty stocks in focus on Monday, 08 August 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wockhardt Ltd.,Union Bank of India,Spicejet Ltd.,Sona Koyo Steering Systems Ltd.,Pfizer Ltd.,Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.,Hero MotoCorp Ltd.,Financial Technologies (India) Ltd.,Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd.,DLF Ltd.,Alpine Housing Development Corporation Ltd.,Aegis Logistics Ltd.

Date :  Aug 08, 2016, 07.44 AM IST

Document ID : 832

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open higher on Monday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The most important thing from markets stand point would be a follow through action because now you would be testing that major resistance at 8700-8720 on Nifty spot," Kunal Bothra of technical analysts with ETNow said.     "If the index manages to break that 8,720 market with such a similar euphoria then there is more room for upside," he added.    Here is a list of top twenty stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Hero MotoCorp:  The two-wheeler maker is expected to report 13 per cent year-on-year (YoY) growth in the net profit to Rs 850 crore for the quarter ended June 30, compared with Rs 750 crore reported in the year-ago period.    Union Bank of India:  Union Bank on Saturday announced a 67.90 per cent year-on-year (YoY) drop in net profit to Rs 166.30 crore for the June quarter on account of a spurt in provisions for non-performing assets (NPAs).    IT stocks  will be in focus after US-based Cognizant Technology Solutions lowered its full-year revenue forecast earlier this year. Cognizant is now predicting revenues in the range of $13.47 billion to $13.60 billion, implying growth of only about 8.5%-9.5%.    Pfizer:  Drug firm Pfizer reported a 6.47 per cent rise in standalone net profit to Rs 80.04 crore for the quarter ended June 30.    HDFC:  The boards of HDFC Life and Max Life Insurance are set to approve a new scheme of arrangement on Monday after the insurance regulator told them it wasn't in favour of the current merger terms as the listed parent of the second company has a contingent liability related to its erstwhile telecom business.    Dr Reddy's Laboratories:  Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to export drugs for the European Union market, said a media report.    Wockhardt:  The US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) issued an import alert on Wockhardt's Ankleshwar plant for alleged violation of good manufacturing practices.    HPCL:  Reserve Bank has allowed foreign investors to hike their stake in Hindustan Petroleum Corp to up to 40 per cent under portfolio investment scheme (PIS).    Bharat Electronics Ltd:  Defence PSU Bharat Electronics (BEL) said it will buy back equity shares worth Rs 2,171 crore, a part of which will accrue to the government.    Oil India:  State-run Oil India (OIL) is set to take a $500-million bridge loan to part-finance the acquisition of two hydrocarbon blocks by Rosneft in east Siberia.    SpiceJet:  Budget carrier SpiceJet and its owner Ajay Singh have moved the Delhi High Court against its single judge's order directing the airline to deposit Rs 579 crore within 12 months in connection with a share transfer dispute with the previous airline owner Kalanithi Maran.    ICICI Bank:  S&P; Global Ratings today lowered ICICI Bank's standalone credit profile to 'bbb-' from 'bbb' saying the private bank's asset quality will remain under pressure over the next one year.    Sona Koyo:  Indian manufacturer and supplier of Steering Systems reported 11 per cent fall in the quarterly net profit to Rs 7.37 crore for the quarter ended June 30 compared with Rs 8.31 crore during corresponding quarter previous year.    Essar Oil Limited:  Essar Oil said on Sunday it will invest an additional Rs.1200 crore over the next two-to-three years to upgrade its Vadinar refinery in Gujarat to boost refinery margins by $1.5 per barrel, said a media report.    CARE:  CARE reported a net profit of Rs 24.6 crore for the quarter ended June 30 compared with Rs 17.5 crore reported in the year-ago period.    Gateway Distriparks:  The company reported 84.9 per cent YoY fall in the net profit to Rs 9.7 crore for the quarter ended June 30 compared with Rs 64.1 crore reported in the year-ago period.    Aegis Logistics:  Aegis Logistics reported 2.8 per cent YoY growth in the net profit to Rs 26 crore for the quarter ended June compared with Rs 25.3 crore reported in the year-ago period.    Asian Paints:  Asian Paints would expand the manufacturing capacity of its two units based at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu and Ankaleshwar in Gujarat.    DLF:  Realty major DLF plans to raise up to Rs 2,500 crore through issuance of non-convertible debentures for working capital requirements and reducing debt.    63 Moons Technologies Ltd:  A special court on Sunday granted bail to FTIL founder Jignesh Shah, arrested in the Rs 5,600 crore National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) scam.    Kellton Tech Solutions Ltd:  Hyderabad-headquartered IT company, Kellton Tech Solutions Ltd, has reported its net profit rose 42 per cent to Rs 12.2 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, from Rs 8.6 crore in the year-ago period.      

