URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/take-that-modi-critics-rajan-arundhati-bhattacharya-hint-at-expanding-economy/articleshow/53735421.cms

Title : Take that Modi critics! Rajan, Arundhati Bhattacharya hint at expanding economy - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,State Bank,SAIL,rajan arundhati bhattacharya,Raghuram Rajan,Modi,economic times,Bhattacharya,Arundhati Bhattacharya

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 12.39 PM IST

Document ID : 216

Content:
  State Bank of India chief Arundhati Bhattacharya is not one to exaggerate or embellish a point. After months of dealing with the bad loan mess and cutting through the clutter of State Bank bureaucracy, she knows the consequences of playing to the gallery. Of saying something only to walk it back after yet another disappointing turn of events. So it was a pleasant surprise on Tuesday when she said that the bank may revise upwards its credit growth target for the year from 12%.     "There are some new projects coming in and we could see credit growth of upwards of 12%," Bhattacharya told reporters. She did not elaborate but RBI governor Raghuram Rajan implied more or less the same when speaking just before her at the same function, he said that risk aversion among bankers could end soon. "Even though bankers are very risk averse today, a few projects are coming up for financing and this will change soon."     What does all this mean? Two big voices in the Indian banking and finance system are both saying the same thing. A possible upward movement in credit growth and demand and the start of big projects which could lift the economy.     By all accounts, Indian economy is not firing on all cylinders. Services, which accounted for 66% of gross value added in FY15, is booming but manufacturing, at least parts of it, is lagging behind. I say parts of it because some sectors like automobiles, steel, cement are doing well while capital goods is struggling. But much of analyst and media commentary has been on projects and asset formation and has failed to take into account the growth in demand many industries.    We all know about financial services sector and its rapid growth. But other industries in manufacturing have also started doing well. Automobiles, for instance grew by 7% last year, up from about 3.5% or so in FY 16. Cement demand has been strong and so has steel consumption. Last year, steel consumption grew only by 4.5% but individual companies like Tata Steel did very well on volumes. The overall growth was dragged down by poor performance by rest of the industry probably including the public sector Sail. A 4.5% growth may look meagre but you have to look at in the context of severe competition from imports and price war waged by Chinese steel makers.     Today, Rajesh Naidu of the Economic Times reported that cement demand in the June quarter was up by 6% compared with 1.5% in the year-ago quarter and select cement companies' operating margins grew 4-15% in the June quarter. For the second half, cement demand is expected to rise 10%.     So, key core sectors of the economy like steel, cement, electricity are already well and so are autos and commercial vehicles.     Private capital formation is abysmal and is unlikely to recover at least till next year and this also explains single digit credit growth that we have been witnessing for the last two years. But lagging private capital formation has to be seen in context of below-normal capacity utilisation and the need for big, massive projects in context of global commodity glut. It is normal for industrialists not to put up new capacities if industry-wide capacity utilisation is only between 70-75%. There is nothing surprising or unusual about it. In fact, industry probably needs to be commended for this distinct lack of enthusiasm for big projects. The last thing you would want are industrialists announcing gigantic capacities and bankers falling over each to fund them at dirt cheap rates. The need of the hour in India is rational, sensible lending and capacity creation based on business logic and reasonable financial returns. If India needs to wait for a few years for that to happen so be it.     Ms Bhattacharya's statement that the country's largest bank is ready to lift its credit growth rate for the year from an above average 12% could then mean only thing. There is now reasonable expectation of a pickup in big projects this financial year. If that were to happen, we could see some revival in capital goods demand and production though it is prudent not to raise expectations considerably at this stage. With good monsoon, booming consumption demand, increasing core sector production and a possible 25-50 basis points rate cut, Indian economy could enter a new orbit by March-April next year. Modi's Acche din are probably around the corner.  

