URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//kormangala-has-become-a-commercial-hub-ashok-soota-happiest-minds-technologies/articleshow/12491712.cms

Title : Kormangala has become a commercial hub: Ashok Soota, Happiest Minds Technologies - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : MG Road,Koramangala,Happiest Minds Technologies,commercial and residential localities,Bangalore Development Authority,Bangalore,Ashok Soota

Date :  Apr 01, 2012, 03.10 PM IST

Document ID : 419

Content:
 Ashok Soota, the executive chairman of Happiest Minds Technologies — an IT services firm, not only started MindTree along with others to see the company's revenue grow to $350 million prior to starting Happiest Minds, he has also seen Koramangala grow from a sparsely populated residential colony to a major commercial hub. Shilpa Shree spoke to Mr Soota about his love for his home, Koramangala. Edited excerpts:   For how long have you been living in Bangalore? Did you live in Koramangala all these years that you were residing in the city?        I have been living in Bangalore since 1984. I have never lived in any other city for more than six years at a stretch. Ever since I moved to Bangalore in 1984 from Hyderabad, I have stayed in Koramangala all through. Initially I used to rent a place in Koramnagala 1st block. In 1986, I bought a plot in 6th block in a Bangalore Development Authority auction and in 1988, I moved into this house.        What do you like most about Koramangala?        When I was shifting from Hyderabad, I told my friend I would like to have a house, which would overlook a lake. My friend replied, "Then stay in Koramangala." Those days it was scenic. From my residence I could see a lake at a distance. But now it has changed. Like I said earlier I have never lived in any other city beyond six years at a stretch. However. I have lived in Bangalore, in Koramangala for 28 years. It is home now.        What is the importance of Koramangala's location in Bangalore?        It is almost in the heart of the city. One has easy access to MG Road, Brigade Road and Commercial Street from here. It is a connecting point between the northern and southern parts of the city.            Which are the places you visit frequently in Koramangala?        There is a beautiful park next my house. In fact many of my friends say that my house has a park attached to it. I also go to Koramanagala club, which is well maintained and frequent to Forum Mall too.        Which restaurants and hypermarkets do you frequent to make purchases?        There are 3-4 restaurants near my residence, which has some nice specialised restaurants. There is Esplanade, Umerkot and Chung Wah. They are slightly up market but are good value for money. There is also the Grand Mercure Hotel, which has a couple of good restaurants. Apart from these, there are many fast food, take-home and home delivery outlets as well.        What are the areas of improvement for Koramangala?        There are many. I understand that there is need for more apartments because of the pressure and price of land. But, it should not be built without thorough planning. In many places I see houses attached to each other without any green spaces.             There is a need for better management of traffic. During peak hours the roads are chock-a-block. I wish there was a segregation of commercial and residential localities.                The pavements are a disgrace, which needs to be well maintained and have more space for pedestrians to walk around. Despite all these deficiencies, it is a great place to stay.        Any other information you would like to share about this part of the city?        One thing that is worthy to be shared is how Koramangala has changed in the last two decades. When I came here there were just three houses in the vicinity but now there are many! We have lost a lot of greenery due to this, but the plus point is we lost giant blood seeking mosquitoes along with the greenery.             Earlier I had to go to MG Road to buy some exotic fruits whereas now it is available in Koramangala. It has become a commercial hub. There are many schools and colleges around. There were times when I thought of moving out. But the park next to my house is a great retention factor.             I recently bought an adjacent plot and I don't intend to construct anything there. I just want to beautifully landscape it to add more aesthetic value.    

