URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/sports/dear-mr-modi-india-can-get-you-10-medals-in-2020-if-you-spend-rs-480-crore/articleshow/53753471.cms

Title : Dear Mr Modi, India can get you 10 medals in 2020 if you spend Rs 480 crore - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sakshi Malik,rohtak,Narendra Modi,Narayana Murthy,kotak mahindra bank sports,Kotak Mahindra Bank,Infosys,Ease of Doing Business

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 01.37 PM IST

Document ID : 48

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Rohtak girl Sakshi Malik on Thursday managed to break India's medal jinx at Rio with her bronze. Shuttler PV Sindhu is now probably our only other medal hope.     Since the 1980 Olympics in Moscow, India has won 14 Olympic medals. That's one medal for every 8.92 crore Indian.     That stat reads awful right?     But that figure could change if Prime Minister Narendra Modi can make Ease of Winning Medals just as important as his Ease of Doing Business push.     All that is needed is an investment of Rs 48 crore for one medal, according to Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra.     "Each medal costs the UK £5.5 million. That's the sort of investment needed. Let's not expect much until we put systems in place at home," he tweeted after Malik's spectacular show.      Each medal costs the UK £5.5 million. That's the sort of investment needed. Let's not expect much until we put systems in place at home.    — Abhinav Bindra (@Abhinav_Bindra)    August 16, 2016    This means if we want to match toe-to-toe with China, which had 88 medals in London 2012 compared to India's best tally of 6, it needs to pump in Rs 4,224 crore in the coming years.     Even if the country wants to grab its biggest haul of medals (of 7) at the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2020, it needs to invest Rs 336 crore over the next four years.     That amount is less than the Rs 567 crore the PM and his ministers have spent on foreign trips in 2015-16.     India is an ambitious country and now stands as the fastest-growing large economy in the world with a GDP growth rate of 7.6 per cent, leaving the likes of China behind.     But that economic success needs to translate into sporting glory for India to really stand out as a nation of dominance.     "Sports is a symbol of a country's progress. US dominates medal tally. China is doing well. Hope India scores some medals soon. But long way to go for us," tweeted Uday Kotak, executive vice chairman and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank.      Sports a symbol country progress. US dominates medal tally. China doing well. Hope India scores some medals soon. But long way to go for us.    — Uday Kotak (@udaykotak)    August 18, 2016    Indians are a proud lot as Infosys founder Narayana Murthy said in his "highest per unit of ego per achievement" jibe and if our athletes can score medals in droves in the coming future, then cricket's monopoly is bound to lose its grip and may further help in creating the sort of sports culture countries such as US, Brazil and UK are famed for.     In the race to be a superpower, India may be doing everything right but missing out on sporting glory.  

