URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/lt-financeholdings-jain-irrigation-and-manappuram-finance-are-top-3-midcap-investment-bets-sandip-sabharwal/articleshow/53718587.cms

Title : L&T FinanceHoldings, Jain Irrigation and Manappuram Finance are top 3 midcap investment bets: Sandip Sabharwal - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,Triveni Turbine,technology,TCS,stocks,So,Shree Cement,Sandip Sabharwal,portfolio,place,people,open,News,new,mutual fund,markets,Market,Manappuram Finance,Manappuram,L&T Finance Holdings,L&T Finance,L&T,Jain Irrigation,Infosys,India,in,finance,europe,et now,ET,EPS,earnings,Cipla,Business,budget,Brexit,A Star

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 11.06 AM IST

Document ID : 645

Content:
  in a chat with ET Now, Sandip Sabharwal, asksandipsabharwal.com, says Cipla is not going to perform in the near term as there has been a lot of management churn also. Edited excerpts       ET Now: Everybody is stuck on thinking about what will happen to Infosys as a result of this contract cancelation and could there be more in store because this is probably the first symptom if you will of fever from Brexit for IT. Do you take it as far and do you think the stock will react?         Sandip Sabharwal:    Some things do not seem to be working for Infosys because I think on the software issues also we have seen few exits after the last result. Before the last result, the commentary was soft and actually the buzz of this news was going around over the last 7-10 days but what exactly the news flow was no one knows. But I think it is a significant event because it will reduce the growth prospects for this year and also may be their guidance for next year and to that extent IT as it has been an underperforming sector, it will increase the underperformance especially given the fact that Infosys still remains one of the most over owned stocks in the entire institutional basket. If you see mutual fund portfolio, it is the most over owned stock and to that extent, some selling should come in. eventually if not today as people realises that there is less value and to that extent the underperformance will only grow.        ET Now: For most of their growth concerns, whether it is US or Europe, do you think this is the start of things where even if contracts are not lost or scrapped completely, there would be a cut back in budget which is what Cognizant's earnings also kind of reflected. Do you think that is a worry that will not only plague Infosys but will spread to the entire sector and hit the mid tier IT companies more?         Sandip Sabharwal:    I would not like to extrapolate because if you see the technology sector in the US, it is doing extremely well and what is not doing well is a services sector which Indian companies are catering to. That is also because of their huge exposure to BFSI and BFSI is where the pressure is. Now, we have seen differential commentary and performance. So, I think the stocks have also corrected. A lot of stocks are down, even on the midcaps side. So one should not say that there is no value. I think there is value in some of the stocks but largely the sector remains an avoid given the macro factors at play both domestically and globally where domestic plays are much better.        ET Now: Shree Cement has got blow out valuations yet markets believe that this company is something special on paper. I can prove that this is the most expensive or one of the most expensive cement stocks in the world and yet the appetite for Shree Cement at least from an institutional standpoint is still strong?         Sandip Sabharwal:    Yes, not only is it the most expensive stock in the world but it is the most expensive in the markets. As a commodity stock, it trades at above 45 times earnings and it is largely a reflection of the fact that the way they have controlled cost to boost profitability over the last many years which is quite amazing and that is why oi is being rewarded by the markets. That said, given the structure of the cement industry today, given the fact that they themselves are looking at pretty rapid expansion of capacities and as cash flows are strong in the cement industry, the scope for positive surprise from here in my view is low. But it is a stock which has always surprise positive so I think those who are holding are unlikely to sell but I would not advice people who want to buy in new to buy into the stock at this stage.        ET Now: Let us talk about earnings of Cipla. Their numbers came up post market hours. Optically, the numbers looked not so impressive but brokerages have still given the benefit of doubt to the company given the outlook that is still seems to be on track?         Sandip Sabharwal:    I think it is a waste of time discussing Cipla. Cipla is something which has not performed. I do not think it is going to perform in the near term as there has been a lot of management churn also. Their strategies have gone somewhere extremely wrong. People keep on buying Cipla just looking at the stock price and comparing it with other stocks like it. I do not think it is going to move. If the markets do very well, the stock will may be remain where it is, if markets do not do well, I think it is going to correct further.        ET Now: Would you say TCS now has a further scope to outperform?         Sandip Sabharwal:    After the results my view was that TCS will open up 10-15% upside. We have seen a 10% kind of upside so I am not looking at a more than 5% upside in TCS from here unless and until we see some change in management commentary or result delivery in the September quarter is much beyond expectation.        ET Now: TCS is saying that the business is robust, digital business is growing and there is no deal cancelation because of Brexit . You will never get anything more than that from TCS. They will never give you an absolute number. They start even giving industry comparables but this is one company which has delivered despite odds and the stock is not trading at a PE multiple of 25 times, it is trading at a PE multiple of about 20 now?         Sandip Sabharwal    : I think finally you have to also look at in the context that the industry is now growing at 11% to 13% instead of 15-20%. So to that extent, there is only so much higher PE you can give unless and until the delivery is beyond expectation. So if they deliver couple of points beyond expectations, then you could have a one or two multiple rerating on the PE but not beyond that.        ET Now: Jain Irrigation is clearly emerging as a star now numbers are looking strong but is this largely operational or is this one off because of the base effect?         Sandip Sabharwal:    There is a huge operational improvement both in terms of control of cost as well as reduction in interest cost and the good point about the business of Jain Irrigation today is they do not need to do any capex for the next three-four years so they have capacities in place.     Last two years, the management was on the right track but they got hit by the worst kind of monsoon. So when macros turn so bad, you cannot do anything. I think macros are turning positive for the company now and they have already done a Rs 1.2 odd EPS for the first quarter and consensus estimates for this year are that the company will do a 210 odd crore profit as per the analyst who are trading. I think all indicators are that we could see the profits near Rs 300 crore this year and as that happens, the rerating will pick up and next year also interest cost will remain lower. There will be no capex. So the operating leverage itself will take earnings up by 30 to 40% next year also and the company is very well placed today. There still disbelief because of what has happened in the past but I think that disbelief is good for long term investors because it gives them time to accumulate the stock. By next year, I am seeing the stock doubling from here.         ET Now: Your top one midcap investment idea at this point of time? I can think of three or four, which is why I am asking you. There is L&T; Finance, there is Triveni Turbines that you have recently recommended, you are bullish on Jain as well what would be your top buy if you had to go out and this morning?         Sandip Sabharwal    : As a investor one should not be in a single stock so I would think that among the three companies we still have scope of rerating and where the growth will be very good. I think L&T; Finance holdings, Jain Irrigation and Manappuram Finance, these three still hold out and I believe these three companies will do very well over the next one-one and a half years.        ET Now: So your portfolio currently is Triveni Turbine, India Cements, L&T; Finance and Manappuram.         Sandip Sabharwal:    Among others, yes.  

