URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/e-filing-atm-based-validation-facility-enhanced/articleshow/53189425.cms

Title : E-filing: ATM-based validation facility enhanced - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SBI,New Delhi,ITR,I-T return,Income Tax,CPC,Business,Axis Bank,automated teller machine

Date : Jul 13, 2016, 01.47 PM IST

Document ID : 511

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Income Tax department has widened the ATM-based validation system for filing e-ITRs by taxpayers with the inclusion of Axis Bank, after SBI, as part of its measure to enhance the paperless regime of filing the annual I-T returns.     "Now, Electronic Verification Code (EVC) can also be generated by pre-validating Automated Teller Machine (ATM) provided by Axis Bank. SBI had activated the facility last month. Other banks are also expected to join soon," a senior I-T department official said.     In May this year, the department had launched the bank account-based validation facility in this regard for those who have not availed the internet banking facility.     The new facility is available on the official e-filing portal of the department- http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/ and will work by using the One Time Password (OTP) verification system as activated by the department last year by using the Aadhaar number.        Also Read:    Everything you need to know about filing tax return     These measures are used to validate the e-ITR so that the taxpayer does not take the trouble of sending the paper-based ITR-V by post to the Bengaluru-based Central Processing Centre (CPC) for final resolution and processing.     The new ITRs have been notified early this year and taxpayers can e-file thier ITRs till July 31.     ITR-1 can be filed by individuals having income from salaries, one house property and from other sources including interest.     ITR-2 is filed by Individuals and Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) not having income from business or profession. ITR-2A is filed by those individuals and HUFs who do not have income from business or profession and capital gains and who do not hold foreign assets.  

