URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/tech-view-nifty50-forms-hanging-man-pattern-8540-level-key-for-bulls/articleshow/53771782.cms

Title : Tech view: Nifty50 forms ‘Hanging Man’ pattern; 8,540 level key for bulls - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : tech,RSI,nifty,New Delhi,new,Mohammad,mean,Market,MACD,in,Fly,end,Bank Nifty

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 05.21 PM IST

Document ID : 454

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Nifty50, which came near kissing distance of the 8,700 level, succumbed to selling pressure on Friday, but managed to close above the crucial support level of 8,650.     The index formed a 'Small Bear' candle, which resembled a 'Hanging Man' kind of formation on the daily candlestick charts.     A 'Hanging Man' is a bearish candlestick pattern, which is formed at the end of an uptrend. In this formation, the market witnesses significant selloff at the very start but manages to recoup some of the losses and close near the opening level.     The selloff is usually seen as an early indication of a short-term top being formed. However, traders should not base their decisions on this pattern alone and also look at other indicators such as RSI, MACD, ADX and RoC, among others.     The formation of a 'Small Bear Candle,' which closely resembles a 'Hanging Man' pattern, does not necessarily mean the buyers have lost their edge. But it gives an early indication that the market momentum may be waning.     The Nifty50 opened at 8,694 and then slipped into an intraday low of 8,647, thus forming a long lower shadow. It hit a high of 8,696, which was close to the opening level, which resulted in a small upper shadow. Eventually, the 50-stock barometer ended the day at 8,666.     Investors are advised to remain cautious and do not add any long positions. The index has to sustain above the 8,540 level for the bullish momentum to continue, experts said.     "The Nifty50 registered a 'Small Bear Candle,' which looks similar to a 'Hanging Man' pattern, but with the lower shadow, which is less than the body. In any case, Friday's listless price behaviour still suggests caution on the part of the bulls," Mazhar Mohammad, Chief Strategist - Technical Research & Trading Advisory, Chartviewindia.in, told ETMarkets.com.     "Lack of follow-up buying in Bank Nifty and sluggish price behaviour on the part of Nifty50 are worrying signs. If we presume that a triangular structure is in progress since August 1, then the rally from the low of 8,540 would look like a fourth leg (Wave D) of such a triangle," he said.     Mohammad said if the Nifty50 slips below the 8,540 mark, it shall invalidate the assumption of a triangular formation and pave the way for a sharp cut initially towards the 8,445 level.        The Nifty index opened on a positive note but failed to cross the crucial resistance level at 8,700. The index formed higher highs and higher lows compared with the last session, but failed to cheer the positive momentum of last session and closed near the 8,665 level with the loss of around 10 points.     "The index closed flat to negative on both daily and weekly basis, but managed to hold the higher lows. It formed a 'Hanging Man' candle on the daily chart and a 'Dragon Fly Doji' with a 'Harami Cross' pattern on weekly chart," Mohammad said.     "Price pattern and behaviour indicate the absence of follow-up buying beyond the 8,700 level, while sustained buying on any meaningful decline is going to keep the trend intact," he said.  

