URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/axisyes-bpcl-and-eicher-may-gain-weight-in-msci-india-rejig/articleshow/53514401.cms

Title : Axis,Yes, BPCL and Eicher may gain weight in MSCI India rejig - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Yes Bank,Reddy,pidilite,FPI,Eicher Motors,BPCL,axis bank yes bank,Axis Bank

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 02.06 AM IST

Document ID : 822

Content:
  ET Intelligence Group: The weights of stocks such as Axis Bank, Yes Bank, BPCL and Eicher Motors is likely to increase in the range of 0.2-2.9% during the upcoming tweaking of the MSCI India index, a widely tracked emerging market index by global funds. Besides, traders may also evince interest in Bajaj Finserve and Pidilite as they are likely to be the new entrants in the index.     On the other hand, the weight of Dr Reddy's Laboratories is likely to fall due to the buyback which will increase its promoters' holding. The quarterly tweaking of the MSCI India index will be announced on August 11 and will be effective from September 1.     The MSCI stock selection is based on factors such as average traded volumes, free float market capitalisation and foreign portfolio investors (FPI) limit.     According to Neeraj Agarwal, vice president at IDFC, there is a higher probability that weights of stocks such as Axis Bank, Yes Bank and Eicher Motors may be increased due to a rise in their free float shares — shares which are available for trading other than those held by promoters. MSCI considers May 31 as the last date to compute quarterly rejig in August.      However, there are a few exceptions for considering a free float changes done after the cut-off date. In the previous index rejig, weights of Maruti and Ashok Leyland were raised even when their FPI limits were increased after the cut-off date. If MSCI continues to consider the changes in FPI limit done after the cut-off date this time too, then Axis Bank, Yes Bank and BPCL will likely be accorded with a higher weightage.     Axis Bank has a weight of 1.5% in the MSCI India. It increased the FPI limit twice. First, from 49% to 62% before May 31, and then to 74% on July 15. If MSCI considers May 31 as the cut-off date, Axis will have a new weight of 3.6%, but if computed on the basis of 74% FPI limit, the new weight will be 4.4%.     An inclusion in the MSCI India leads to fund deployment by several passive funds in proportion to the weight assigned to the stock. A stock typically gains over the short-term if the average daily volume of the stock included in the index is lower versus the total demand by the passive funds. Foreign ETFs, whose portfolio mirrors the weight accorded by the MSCI, have invested nearly 10% of the total AUM in Indian equities.  

