URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/are-you-an-honest-taxpayer-find-out/articleshow/53018136.cms

Title : Are you an honest taxpayer? Find out - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : taxpayer,Tax,Narendra Modi,honest taxpayer,evade tax,ET Wealth

Date : Jul 04, 2016, 03.15 PM IST

Document ID : 525

Content:
  Prime Minister Narendra Modi believes that "Indians are inherently honest", but a recent survey indicates that if given a chance, 58% of taxpayers will under-report their income to save tax. The online survey conducted last week by ET Wealth got 953 respondents across age groups and income levels. On the face of it, the results of the survey validate Modi's words. Over 82% of taxpayers have never knowingly given incorrect information in their tax returns and 13.6% have done it just "once or twice". A mere 4.4% are the bad apples who have under-reported their income many times in their returns. Likewise, 86% will dutifully pay tax on gains from intra-day trading of stocks even though there is a very slim chance that anybody but their broker will know of it (see graphics).                However, the honesty demonstrated by Indian taxpayers could have more to do with the lack of opportunity than integrity. Over 22% will not report cash received for freelance work and 23% will not mention rent received in cash in their returns. If an insurance plan is closed within two years of buying, the tax benefits availed of in those years have to be reversed. Over 30% of taxpayers will not pay tax because they believe nobody will get to know of the transaction.     For salaried taxpayers, there is very little scope for tax evasion because of the tax deduction at source (TDS). They can, however, under-report the income they receive from other sources.     Also Read:  All you need to know about filing your tax return    We filtered the results to identify respondents who would not commit any of the 10 transgressions mentioned in the survey. Only 42% of the 923 respondents made the cut. These include people who have never submitted incorrect information in their tax returns. They are willing to cross the line if they know they can get away with the evasion. Many of them do not realise that the I-T department is keeping a close eye and a scrutiny could have grave consequences.              Take for instance, the common fallacy that a taxpayer who changed jobs during the year can get away by paying lower tax. Although he will get double tax deduction and exemption from both employers, the mistake will be discovered when he files his return. The double exemption and deduction will automatically get reduced and the taxpayer will have to shell out a huge tax. "If the unpaid tax exceeds Rs 10,000, after the due date, there is a penal interest of 1% per month of delay," says Vaibhav Sankla, Director, H&R; Block India.     The problem won't go away if he doesn't file his tax. The income from both employers will be reflected in the Form 26AS, so he is likely to get a notice for not filing tax return. A taxpayer can't pass the blame on the employer for not deducting the due tax. "The employer deducts tax on the estimated annual income of an individual based on the declaration and investment proof submitted by him. It is the duty of the employee to verify the particulars reflected in the Form 16," says Sankla.             "If there is an error in Form 16, the employee must immediately alert the employer. The employer shall make the necessary correction and if required shall also furnish a revised TDS return," says Archit Gupta, Founder and CEO, ClearTax.com. Though 31% of the respondents chose this path, that's the long route. The easier way to correct the mistake is quoting the right numbers in your ITR form.     In his monthly address to the nation last Sunday, the Prime Minister had exhorted Indians to pay their taxes honestly. But many taxpayers also lend their ears to diametrically opposite advice: one in four taxpayers tends to listen to tax evasion tips from friends even if he doesn't follow them fully. And 5.7% not only take the advice on tax evasion but spread it among friends and family. "There is a rise in the number of defaulters because taxpayers neither fear the law nor perceive any benefit in honesty and tax compliance," says Sudhir Kaushik, Co-founder and CFO, Taxspanner. com.          No social stigma   One disturbing finding of the survey is that few people are willing to take proactive steps against tax evasion by family members. If their spouse or close relative is evading tax, only 32% of the respondents will forcefully dissuade them from doing so. Nearly 54% will gently advise them against it and 14% will not even interfere in the matter. "There is no social stigma for being a tax offender in India. Even if someone gets caught for evasion or is served a scrutiny notice, it is acceptable in society," adds Kaushik. This social acceptability of unethical tax practices is surprising, given that a vast majority (73%) of taxpayers feel that Indian tax rules are not fair. Interestingly, 68% of those who complain that the system favours the dishonest have fudged their returns or are willing to under-report their income to save tax.          Honesty is best policy   The tax department is under a lot of pressure to improve compliance because the Prime Minister wants the tax base to increase from the current 5.43 crore assessees to 10 crore assessees. Notices are being sent out to non filers, more details are being sought in tax forms and greater efforts are being put into catching defaulters. Tax evaders should remember that the penalty can be up to 300% of the tax sought to be evaded, imprisonment or both. As the prime minister pointed out in his address, honesty is the best policy. "By running away from rules, we lose our peace (of mind). Anybody can harass us. Why should we let that happen? Why don't we give correct information to the government about our income, about our wealth?" he exhorted. As you get ready to file your tax return this year, keep his words in mind.     Also Read:  Six steps to e-filing your income tax return    Also Read:  Under which Section have you got an income tax notice?    Also Read:  5 innocent mistakes honest taxpayers usually make    

