URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//outlook-positive-for-gold-and-silver-as-investment-avenues/articleshow/11761798.cms

Title : Outlook positive for gold and silver as investment avenues - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US Federal reserve,Systematic investment plans,silver,precious metals,Gold-based mutual funds,Gold,Developed countries

Date :  Feb 05, 2012, 04.47 PM IST

Document ID : 442

Content:
      BANGALORE: Precious metals-based investment instruments performed better as compared to other asset classes in the last few years. The investment-led demand has been one of the key drivers of precious metals' prices in this recessionary phase in many developed countries.             The prices of precious metals have gone quite a bit, and investments in precious metals have yielded better returns than any other instruments over the last few years.             Analysts say the outlook for precious metals is still attractive in the medium term due to uncertainty in the global economies, and more expectations of monetary easing across the world. Investors can add precious metals to their portfolios cautiously by buying in small quantities at regular intervals.        Outlook for gold         Traditionally, gold has been an international currency and investors across the world buy gold as an investment. The demand for gold has risen over the last few years. It is mainly 'safe haven' demand from large global investors and hedge funds who aim at safeguarding their investments amidst global economic uncertainty.             High liquidity and soft monetary policies of central banks across the world, to boost economic activity, further channeled money to gold-based instruments. This resulted in higher prices of gold.             There was some weakness in the price of gold towards the second half of last year due to tightening of liquidity . However, the announcement by the US Federal Reserve last week that it will maintain its soft monetary policy for the next couple of years added to the positive sentiments on gold.             Analysts believe gold prices will remain firm in the short to medium terms, driven by the soft monetary policies in the global markets coupled with economic uncertainty in the European markets.             Individual investors can invest in gold, purchasing it from reputed dealers. Investors can also invest in eunits of gold or gold-based mutual funds. Gold-based mutual funds offer systematic investment plans (SIPs) for smooth and gradual investments.        Outlook for silver         Silver also comes under the precious metals category. Basically, the demand for silver comes from three major components - industrial demand, jewelry demand and investment demand.             The demand from the industrial and jewelry sectors has been quite stable, and growing at a good rate since the last few years.             However, it is the investment and speculation-led demand that has driven the prices of silver up sharply in the recent past. The investment demand for silver has increased exponentially over the last few years, and as a result, silver has significantly out-performed gold in the recent past.             Price volatility remains quite high in silver. As a result, silver attracts more speculative activity. The price of silver also started going up after the announcement by the US Federal Reserve of its continuing soft monetary policy. Analysts believe silver can break previous records if it catches the price momentum in the short to medium terms.    

