URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/asian-paints-performance-rises-on-discretionary-consumption/articleshow/53442926.cms

Title : Asian Paints' performance rises on discretionary consumption - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Retail,real estate,new,markets,Market,in,HUL,gdp,ET,environment,earnings,Dabur,categories,Business,Asian Paints

Date :  Jul 29, 2016, 07.11 AM IST

Document ID : 915

Content:
  ET INTELLIGENCE GROUP: Asian Paints' strong performance for the third consecutive quarter seems to be indicating that consumers are more comfortable buying paints rather than staples.     At a time when demand for fastmoving consumer goods remains subdued — as evident from the Q1 performances of HUL and Dabur — Asian Paints' performance appears tangential to the general reasoning of slowdown in discretionary consumption. The continued good show also raises questions on the reasoning of general slump in the real estate market.     Paints has been one of the few consumer categories that have shown resilience in the current environment of slowdown in demand. Under-penetration, a diversified consumer base, lower competitive intensity and pent-up demand are the main aspects on which paints industry is different from the traditional FMCG industry. Besides, triggers like forecast of good monsoon, Seventh Pay Commission, expectation of increase in government expenditure and possible implementation of GST seemed to have further prodded the paint consumers — retail as well as institutional, and in rural as well as urban markets — to loosen their purse strings.     Double-digit volume growth, record operating margin of 22.8 per cent (on back of benign input costs) and improved performance across all business segments were the key highlights of Asian Paints Q1 show — pushing the stock to a new high on Thursday. With raw material prices trending up, margins seem to have peaked.     Are the expensive valuations justified? Asian Paints stock is trading at 51 times its estimated earnings for FY17. The company's Q1 volume growth estimated at around 12 per cent is lower than its historical compound annual growth rate of 17-18 per cent. In an under-penetrated category, the company continues to add 2,000-3,000 distributors every year. Its foray into kitchen and bathroom products further increases its footprint into a household. Besides, paints industry typically grows at 1.5 times the GDP growth.     Expectation of further improvement in the GDP growth augurs well for the country's largest decorative paints company.  

