URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/who-says-it-is-game-over-for-it-largecap-hold-them-for-a-long-time-rajat-sharma-ceo-sana-securities/articleshow/53783055.cms

Title : Who says it is game over for IT largecap? Hold them for a long time: Rajat Sharma, CEO, Sana Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,TCS,stocks,So,portfolio,new,markets,Infosys,in,et now,ET,ACC

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 12.22 PM IST

Document ID : 470

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Rajat Sharma, CEO, Sana Securities, says if you are buying IT stocks for the first time, avoid till US elections are over. Edited excerpts       ET Now: What are you doing with largecap IT currently, I am not even going down the midcap path, largecap IT what is your stance? Are these stocks in value zone or would you still avoid them?        Rajat Sharma:   So for some time, I would like to avoid them purely because until the US elections are out of the way, I do not think anything big is going to happen in the largecap IT space. Having said that, TCS I have had TCS and Infosys in my portfolio for a very long time. I do not see any reason to sell them. I may not want to buy these stocks right now but that view is purely because the markets itself is a little overvalued and so not the best time to buy these stocks. But I do not see anything wrong with these stocks. So if you have them in your portfolio, I would not tell anyone to sell these stocks and there is not anything like a game over for any of these stocks. These are good stocks. You should hold on to them for a very long time.         ET Now: Coming on the cement pack. A lot of these names are clocking in new highs, in certain cases life-highs and the number operationally were fantastic. What are you telling your clients to do in the cement space?        Rajat Sharma:    Yes absolutely and I think cement pack in general has given the most stellar numbers for the first quarter. Now in the cement pack, I really like ACC purely because of the geographical spread it has. It gets its revenue from all parts of the countries but equally north, south, east, west and what is happening right now the cement sector is that the sector gets around 17% of its revenue from the infrastructure side which is possibly the shortest, the smallest portion of its revenue and I think going forward this bit of the pie is likely to expand given the way the government is rolling out new projects in the road and infrastructure segment. So while valuations are really high in this segment, I do expect this segment to keep performing well in the next few quarters. So, ACC is one stock that we have recommended, that we have in our portfolio. Having said that, we recommended that a while back but I do think that you could add ACC at these prices in your portfolio right now.  

