URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/slowdown-in-us-economy-to-put-more-pressure-on-it-sector-girish-pai-nirmal-bang/articleshow/53770904.cms

Title : Slowdown in US economy to put more pressure on IT sector: Girish Pai, Nirmal Bang - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,stocks,So,risk,Retail,place,Pai,mean,market share,Market,India,in,Gold,Girish Pai,gdp,et now,ET,end,economy,Business,Arbitrage

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 04.19 PM IST

Document ID : 471

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Girish Pai, Nirmal Bang, says a big shift towards renewable energy is probably going to be seen by players going forward. Edited excerpts        ET Now: First, prima facie what is your understanding of the power sector? I mean everyone in corporate India went berserk in the last economic cycle and everybody wanted a piece of the power sector. Now, realisation has kicked in that power is a very tough business to run and it is not easy to run a regulated business in a country like India.         Girish Pai:    We do not officially cover the utility sector specifically but I think the game has shifted away from thermal power towards renewable energy. I think that is the shift probably one is seeing if you look at the priorities of say various groups involved in the sector. As you said, the cycle has turned, things have changed. We had a situation where we were probably working with something like 12-13% deficit at one point in time. Now we are in a situation where it is almost like a balance between demand and supply. So I think things have changed quite dramatically. There are certain regulated utilities which will probably do well, the NTPCs and PGCILs will probably do well. But the ones which have been set up 7- 8 years back, which were based on merchant power with pricing being very high, will probably see pressure going forward. And obviously this big shift towards renewable energy is the other big thing that is probably going to be seen by players going forward.        ET Now: As a house you have been bearish on IT and you have been right. Has you view changed or this is just the turning of a tide for IT. IT business earlier was growing, now it is contracting and most of the IT companies are now admitting that the road ahead would be tough and it would be rather volatile.         Girish Pai:    A fundamental shift is taking place in the IT services sector. If you look at the last 20-25 years, the growth of the sector was driven more by market share gain because of labour cost arbitrage. Now, over the last few years, we have been hearing about this issue about automation and this kind of caught on over the last year and a half.     About 18 months back we released a report saying that we had negative view on the sector. We felt that growth in the sector is going to be in the single digit territory and not in the low teen kind of territory that the consensus was expecting and part of that was driven by the view that this labour cost arbitrage advantage that India has had over the last 20-25 years is probably going to slowly go away and labour is going to be replaced by piece of software which will lead to compression of IT contracts and if you look at the Indian business per se, only about 14-15% is actually coming from digital, the rest of it is largely traditional business and quite a bit of that is vulnerable to this automation phenomenon and therefore compression, so that was one big thing that we talked about when we released the report 18 months back.     The other big thing that we talked about was cyclical pressures from the US economy. We felt that US economic expansion had gone on for a fair bit and we felt that a lot of indictors were pointing towards slowing down and so was the 2.4% or 2.5% growth that one has seen in US real GDP in 2015. The current consensus is wearing towards 1.5 to maybe 1.7 kind of a number which is the number we talked about just a few months back. We said that is a risk that we will grow between 1% and 2% this year and we are talking about 0% to 1% growth next year which could mean IT service industry growth falling from high single-digit territory to may be a mid-single-digit territory. So is the pain over? I do not think so. So I think it is probably start, when it will end will depend on how badly the US economy turns down.        ET Now: You like Mannapuram Finance but the stocks has already a fantabulous run, what convinces you for a further upside in the counter from here?         Girish Pai    : I think NBFCs have had a very phenomenal run over the last many months now. The credit growth has been fairly good, asset quality has been under control and so basically they have not had exposure to the corporate side which has been the issue with the banks per se, be it the private banks which are heavily into corporate side or the PSU banks.     So it has been more of retail and MSME lending and lap lending which has kind of helped them. Mannapuram has had a turbulent three-four years where we have seen gold fall from about 1900 levels to about 1100 levels, we have seen tightening of norms by RBI whereby the priority sector tag kind of got taken away, LTBs were crunched to 60% versus an 85% that they had prior to FY12.     So it did go through a phase of pain and consolidation and I think a few things have turned out right over the last year or so. They have kind of changed the tenure of the loans they are giving out. So, three to six month loans is what they are giving out now compared to a the tenure being a year a few years back. That has led to a situation where the auction losses that they were incurring because of fall in gold prices where you could see a situation where the realised value of the jewellery could be lower than what is owed by a borrower to Mannapuram. That situation has changed when the gold prices increased and because the tenures have gone down, the gold price should crack by something like 20% in a quarter for losses to be incurred by Mannapuram.     These are the things that have changed which have helped the company. So the auction losses have come off. It has become a more diversified company, not as yet I would say just 12% of its AUM is non-gold right now, which is into a mix of MFI, housing, CV, consumer durables but I think that mix is going to improve as time goes by because the other part, the non-gold part is going to compound at a far faster pace.     More importantly. compared to the other NBFCs. we have a situation where the stock is available at 2 time FY18 adjusted book whereas most others are trading anywhere between three and four times book. So we think there is a fair bit of room for the multiples to expand from here considering the changed state of the company.        ET Now: So what is your target?         Girish Pai:    My analyst is talking about Rs 130 for the company.  

