URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/india-legally-bound-to-enforce-uk-tribunals-decision-on-tata-as-per-new-york-convention-on-arbitration-docomo/articleshow/53506878.cms

Title : India legally bound to enforce UK tribunal's decision on Tata as per New York convention on arbitration: DoCoMo - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tata,RBI,India,Finance Ministry,England,Docomo

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 06.24 AM IST

Document ID : 686

Content:
  NTT Docomo dragged the Indian government into its dispute with the Tatas, saying it is New Delhi's responsibility to enforce the $1.17 billion arbitral award which the local group needs to pay to its Japanese partner.     Docomo also noted the Tatas could have legally paid the arbitral award in ways which didn't require permissions from India's central bank and finance ministry, reiterating its contention that the Indian group could well have made the payment from its overseas businesses.     "Awards made in England by LCIA (London Court of International Arbitration) tribunals are recognised under the New York Convention, to which India was one of the original signatories on the 10th June 1958," the Asian telecom major said in a statement Tuesday.     "As a signatory to the New York Convention, India is bound to enforce the award decision of the LCIA tribunal for Tata to pay $1.17 billion to Docomo."     Docomo was referring to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, also known as the New York Arbitration Convention or the New York Convention, which is a key instrument in international arbitration, signed by more than 150 countries.     The convention applies to the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral agreements and awards.     NTT Docomo and Tatas have been feuding after the former was denied exit from loss-making telco Tata Teleservices, a Tata Group company, at a pre-agreed price of half the original $2.7-billion investment - which came to Rs7,250 crore - due to local laws.     Tatas had cited Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) rules for not paying the amount initially, and again cited the central bank's denial of permission to pay after a London arbitration panel moved by Docomo to resolve the dispute ruled in in favour of the Japanese company.     Tatas last Friday deposited the $1.17 billion in court "in good faith" pending resolution, the motive for which has been questioned by Docomo who say that the Indian company doesn't actually want to pay. The Tatas have constantly highlighted their commitment to abide by its contractual agreements, subject to Indian laws.     "The LCIA tribunal found that Tata Sons had breached its contractual obligations, which were legally capable of performance in ways that did not require permission from the RBI or MOF (ministry of finance)," Docomo said, indicating the Indian company could have paid up from their overseas businesses.     The Japanese telco has already secured an ex parte order (without hearing the Tata group) from the London's Commercial Court Order that suggested that Tata's UK assets, including Jaguar Land Rover, a unit of Tata Motors, or Tata Steel's Corus unit, may be attached by NTT DoCoMo for recovery of the arbitral award.     The Tatas have 23 days from July 27 to block Docomo from attempting to seize the Indian conglomerates UK assets to enforce the London court order.     Tatas have said that the group's UK assets aren't a party to the Docomo dispute, since its minority stake in the companies that own UK assets, namely Tata Motors and Tata Steel, shield the asset to the extent that recovery cannot be sought from other companies than Tata Sons.     Meanwhile, Docomo said that there hasn't been any new decision from India's government on the matter, refuting some recent media reports which cited sources as saying that the finance ministry (MoF) had rejected RBI's plea for exempting the Tata-DoCoMo deal from the foreign exchange Act.     "Docomo is not aware of any recent decision from the MOF on this subject since the award was issued by a tribunal of the London Court of International Arbitration ("LCIA") in favour of DOCOMO on 22nd June 2016," the Asian telco said.      The two parties are also in the Delhi High Court after Docomo moved it to enforce the arbitral award. The court has given the two parties till August 30 to resolve their issues, but the two groups have been embroiled in a public spat on the issue.  

