URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//tips-to-invest-and-save-on-tax/articleshow/12130065.cms

Title : Tips to invest and save on tax - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tax,Public Provident Fund,National Savings Certificate,investments

Date :  Mar 04, 2012, 05.53 AM IST

Document ID : 423

Content:
      The countdown to the end of the current financial year has begun. Many tend to make a beeline for tax-saving instruments at this juncture. Many a time, investments are chosen just for the sake of saving tax. In such cases, investors don't look at the bigger picture - at the longterm impact in terms of returns, capital appreciation , or the tax implications at the time of maturity.             While taking investment decisions, even for tax-saving purposes, you should consider all these attendant factors as well - returns, tax implication on maturity, liquidity , recurring investment needs, tax on the income earned, safety etc. Only then should a tax-saving instrument be chosen.             Investing in tax-saving instruments should also be a well-thought out and planned exercise, rather than just a one-off investment without evaluating the repercussions. Many a time, the decision is based on the advice of an agent or friend. As the risk profile of each person is different, what is suitable for one may not be the right choice for another.             It is best to start the tax planning exercise at the beginning of a financial year, rather than postponing it to March.             The most significant taxsaving avenues are those provided under Section 80C. However, as the limit is just Rs 1 lakh here, you can choose only a limited number of investments under this section. Your Provident Fund contribution by your employer, school fees paid by you for your children, insurance premium, annuity premium etc are all covered under this section. Even the principal component of a home loan repayment is covered under this section.             You have to choose the instruments carefully. For example, you can invest in National Savings Certificate issued by the post office. This qualifies under Section 80C. However, the interest earned on it will be taxable each year. In contrast, in case of an investment in the Public Provident Fund, the yearly contributions as well as the interest earned are tax-free . Both are equally safe as they are issued by the government. However, liquidity in case of Public Provident Fund is less as compared to National Savings Certificate because it is for a period of 15 years.             You also need to consider your cash flow status for the future. In case you need funds in the near future, there is no point in locking money in instruments such as Public Provident Fund or life insurance policies which are for a longer duration. It may be beneficial to go in for equity funds. The lockin period is three years only, after which the units can be sold. However, you are exposed to market risks. The returns depend on the market conditions.             In contrast, you can invest in five-year taxsaving fixed deposits of banks. The interest rate is around 9-10 percent per annum. The principal and returns are secure. The money is tied up for a medium term.             There are some other avenues where no visible asset is created. However, they provide security and means to achieve the necessary objectives. They include repayment of education loan and interest paid during the year on a home loan, and can be claimed as a deduction under Section 80E.             In addition, you can claim a deduction under Section 80D for premium paid on health insurance to the extent of Rs 15,000 for yourself . An additional deduction of Rs 15,000 for health premium paid for parents is available too. The limit is Rs 20,000, if the parents are senior citizens.             So, choosing the right mix from the bag of options is important and needs to be carefully planned.    

