URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/market-share-market-size-and-margin-of-safety-decide-our-investment-rajesh-kothari-alfaccurate-advisors/articleshow/53740199.cms

Title : Market share, market size and margin of safety decide our investment: Rajesh Kothari, AlfAccurate Advisors - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Volkswagen,USA,US,Timken,ten,technology,stocks,So,Rajesh Kothari,product,portfolio,new,net worth,Motherson Sumi,Monopoly,markets,market share,Market,M,liquidity,India,in,Honeywell,gdp,Gabriel,et now,ET,Eicher Motors,earnings,Credit Rating,car,Business,beneficiary,Balance Sheet,Auto

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.00 PM IST

Document ID : 628

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Rajesh Kothari, CIO, AlfAccurate Advisors, explains why Motherson Sumi continues to be its long-term bet. Edited excerpts        ET Now: Let us look at your list of investments or essentially where you have high conviction calls. You like the cyclicals, the capex-led cyclical space and you like PNC Infra there, Honeywell, 3M. Give us your rationale for choosing these three names because Honeywell and 3M are highly illiquid.         Rajesh Kothari:    Liquidity is a secondary point. What is most important if you go through our portfolio, PMS presentation is that, we follow 3-M investment approach. The first M stands for the market size. The size of opportunity should be huge. Second M stands for market share. The stock should be among the probably leading player in its own sector, maybe probably within top five players in its own sector and third M stands for the margin of safety.     The company should be available at reasonable valuations. If you look at across the board irrespective of which sector we are talking about, we follow this 3M approach. So for example, companies like Honeywell, companies like 3M kind of products what they have are like monopolistic kind of products where there are probably less of substitutes.     If you look at for example company like 3M, globally they are present into four or five big segments and each of that segment they have return on capital employed of more than 22% to 23% and each of that segment is growing globally, not only in India but even in countries like USA     India is right now a very small market. If you look at 3M products, India is a very small market for them and as per capital income grow, as the GDP improves, the ability for 3M to launch their multi-product portfolio in India is huge.     Number two, they have decided to focus on profitable growth. So if you look at years back 3M balance sheet and if you look at last year 3M balance sheet, the return on capital employed for each segment has dramatically improved and many of the segment is now 18% plus return on capital employed compared to below 10% return on capital employed two years time. It means focus is on profitable growth rather than just on top line growth.     Number three, as the size of opportunity grows, the operating leverage will keep coming in and all these products are very-very innovative products. If you remember, the 3M company globally is more known as a technology or innovative company rather than a product company because I think probably close to 5% to 8% of their revenue they write it off every year as R&D; expenditure. It is that kind of focus on research and development. So I think it is a very, very impressive company with a very strong track record and a definitely very strong kind of a leadership.     The valuations for such kind of companies are also going to remain always very-very high because they are like monopoly products in nature. You do not have substitutes. You have probably less competitive products and therefore valuations will remain very high but the growth, the earnings growth potential for this company over next three to five to seven years it is a big long-term structural story and I think same holds true for companies like Honeywell as well.     So that is answer for 3M and Honeywell. Third company you mentioned is Timken which is part of our portfolio so if you see our portfolio there are more consumer centric and less capex beneficiaries but part of capex stories, then we go for bottom up so Timken is one of the big beneficiary being into the bearing industry. Again, we follow our 3-M approach, the market size is huge, market share they are the top three players in India and, of course, top three players globally in bearing industry. Within bearing, of course, they are catering to various different sub-segments whether it is a railway or whether it is industry bearing so on and so for and with a very strong return on net worth and earnings profile over next two to three years. I think Timken is also rightly positioned for any capex beneficiary which is likely to happen over next two-and-a-half to three years.        ET Now: Have you looked at the whole model and the valuation of Piramal Enterprises?         Rajesh Kothari:    Yes we have looked at that business model. I think it is a very complex business model to understand because there are multiple business within the Piramal Enterprise. So it is an interesting but very complex model and I think too much of information is still not available. So it is a piecemeal information which we try to understand when we met the company and got from their annual reports of last two years as well as presentation.     So, yes it is an interesting opportunity but it is a very complex opportunity so probably a trigger is going ahead as it has been a public announcement by the management at some point of time there will be probably demerger of various businesses and that can do potential unlocking. But right now, we are not holding that company because as I am saying we are not able to get the full... no we do not have it right now because as I am saying the understanding of the business is taking time for us. There are multiple businesses and particularly that pharma piece is very, very complex.        ET Now: Within the auto component space, what is your preferred bet if you have one and why?         Rajesh Kothari:    We continue to hold Motherson Sumi. It was a very long term bet which we bought I think probably about close to four to five years, if I am not wrong. Of course, in between we did some profit booking but we bought it again, we initiated positions again. This is a company which we are very bullish on because we believe in their vision and I think the entire Volkswagen Group issue is now behind us and company is very strongly positioned. If you read the recent annual report, it has been a very impressive annual report and there is a clear vision and strategy that how they are going to achieve their vision for the next three to four years.     I think the company is rightly positioned to capitalise on opportunity, the content per car is keep increasing or going forward and I think the focus is on innovation for Motherson Sumi. And as you do more innovation your content per car will keep moving up so if you heard the last conference call, the Daimler contribution as percentage of revenue has almost doubled, if I am not wrong, from 5% to now 10% or so.     Three years back, they mentioned that per customer they want to reduce their contribution which they are now doing successfully with Daimler which is a very strong new customer which is added to your overall portfolio. I think this strategy we will keep seeing over the next two and a half three years and the focus is on ROC which is capital employed where they are targeting 40% by year 2020. So I think it is a good compounding story over the next two and half to three years and I think it is a buy at declines, any decline should be used as an opportunity to add to your portfolio. A disclosure, we are holding it for our PMS clients.        ET Now: What is your call on KNR?         Rajesh Kothari:    Basically we are holding few beneficiaries which are... because I think the NHAI, the road project is very strong and I think this is probably one of the biggest theme within capex, is one of the first beneficiary in last probably one or two quarters and I think that theme will continue. So we are holding few companies within the road portfolio and KNR I think is also probably post result, has very, very impressive result because execution has been very-very strong.     While the margins have reduced because of one-time bonus gains which they have done in last one year or so, the margins are now reduced but the execution has been very strong and I think it is probably one of the few companies with a very strong credit rating, very low debt-equity and very strong return on capital employed and return on net worth. Companies like this within the road space we have in our portfolio and I think it will continue to gain probably over next two to three years because the underlying theme is very, very strong.        ET Now: You were definitely bullish on Eicher Motors. What are you doing within the two-wheeler space?         Rajesh Kothari    : Right now we are not in Eicher Motors. We did profit booking with Eicher Motor because we believe that the valuations probably right now are not justified for the next at least one and a half to two years and we are yet to see that how they will be successful in terms of their geographical expansion strategy, particular in the developed markets like US because US is a completely different market compared to the Indian market. It is like creating a new brand which itself probably is going to take another three, four, five, ten years.    It took Eicher Motors long years to build a brand in India. So that is the reason we are not that comfortable with its valuations although earnings growth may continue over the next two to three years.     In the two-wheeler space right now, we do not hold any two-wheeler stocks. We have one of auto ancillary which is a two-wheeler beneficiary called Gabriel. A large part of its revenue comes from two-wheeler space and right now we are holding Gabriel which we bought probably about close to 12-18 months back or maybe 24 months back.  

