URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/for-travellers-these-startup-hostels-offer-home-stay-experience-with-like-minded-people/articleshow/53779021.cms

Title : For travellers these startup hostels offer home-stay experience with like-minded people - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vineet Vincent,Travellers,startup,Karan Bahadur,hostel,Construkt,Community Liaisons

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 03.05 AM IST

Document ID : 123

Content:
  KOLKATA: If minds match, a home is there for you, even when you're away from home. A number of people in various cities are opening up their homes to like-minded people on the move. The business is about the experience of a homestay with people of similar wavelengths in a different city.    Karan Bahadur, who co-runs Construkt, a startup hostel, wanted to create a focused living facility. Having started just three months ago, he is already connecting the startup community during their stay in Bengaluru.     "Construkt-Startup hostel is a convenient, community-curated, business-friendly hostel accommodation designed to cater to the travelling startup and creative community," said Bahadur. Construkt that has only one room for single accommodation can accommodate up to 20 guests at a time who live in common rooms with a common dining, living and cooking facilities.     "By connecting start up professionals we are also trying to breed entrepreneurship where guests can come home and discuss their ideas and aspirations with experienced people from their field," Bahadur added. Putting up at Construkt costs only about Rs 750 per night. With success of the first facility, Construkt is looking at expanding to Koramangala in Bengaluru and Goa, Hyderabad, Pune and NCR in the next two to three years.     Bengaluru has a host of similar offerings include The Meditating Monkeys where the owners have opened up their own home for guests who want to put up with likeminded backpackers. "We are dedicated to creating a harmonious space for the international backpacking community who are interested in a meaningful travel experience.     We provide free internet, tea and coffee, a fully equipped community kitchen, washing machine and a clean bed to rest on. The space is clean, neat ," said Vineet Vincent, a cofounder of The Meditating Monkeys at Cooke Town, Bengaluru.     Alongside the concept of co-living, other platforms to connect likeminded people looking for accommodation are also coming up. One such is Explore Life Travelling. Calling themselves Community Liaisons, they help create micro communities of trust where every member is vetted and validated by the liaisons. The most active clubs on the platform are an IIT Club and a women travellers club.  

