URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/upcoming-spectrum-auction-will-be-the-most-one-sided-suresh-mahadevan-ubs/articleshow/53768188.cms

Title : Upcoming spectrum auction will be the most one-sided: Suresh Mahadevan, UBS - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : UBS,Suresh Mahadevan,spectrum auction,Reliance Jio,idea,Airtel,4G

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 12.44 PM IST

Document ID : 618

Content:
 In this interview with ET Now, Suresh Mahadevan of UBS talks about Reliance Jio's entry, increase in mobile data usage, spectrum auction and more. Edited excerpts:   What is happening in telecom space and how will it impact the incumbents? They are writing to authorities against Reliance Jio testing and are also taking steps like offering more data and free voice calling in select plans. How do you read this strategy where they are going all over the place to protect home turf?   Certainly there is competition in India. India is intensely competitive and that has been the case for the last 20 years or so. The beauty about India is that there is significant growth in mobile data. We have a billion sim cards, but less than 20 per cent have used data. Fixed broadband lines are not really available outside the big cities. So mobile data is the only way for average Indian consumer or the mass market subscriber to access internet. The entry of Reliance Jio and the competition will massively expand the mobile internet pie and we need to focus on that.    Do you see price elasticity coming into play with the spurt in volume of data usage to be enough to compensate for realisations dent?   If you look at the Indian mobile revenues, close to 70 per cent revenue comes from voice, data plus SMS contribute only 30 per cent. Data will become a dominant number in future because most people get addicted to smartphone once they start using it. Since wifi is not very well developed in India, data usage is going to come through mobile route.     If tariffs and phones are affordable, data revolution will start. It has already started, it will accelerate and gain a lot of momentum. So there will be a lot of positive price elasticity and the data pie can be seven to ten times bigger in ten years from what it is today.    Kumar Mangalam Birla said that Reliance Jio's entry would be disruptive. Syntel has reposed its faith in Airtel. Within the three large telecos, who account for three-fourth of market revenues, whose profitability is at the most risk with Jio's entry?   Reliance Jio's launch has been repeatedly postponed. It has given opportunity to the market leaders - Airtel, Vodafone and Idea - to get their act together. Had Reliance Jio started three years ago and started giving 4G, it would have got associated with 4G. Now everybody has 4G including Airtel, Vodafone, Idea and even RCom. So my sense is that Jio will use price as a variable.     Unless you are offering compelling value to the customer, there are not going to be a lot of people switching. They may take market share away from the weaker hands and not necessarily the top three. But Jio is yet to launch services. I believe that the market still has growth and it can easily accommodate Jio.    Some experts believe that this time it will be a capacity war and not really a price war between the telecos.   There is a lot of capacity that has already been created. Just look at the spectrum that Airtel or Jio has. They have a lot of spectrum, they have more than enough capacity. The question is who is able to attract the customers and once you have the customer in your network, how do you retain him.     Operators need to be innovative in offering packages or in moving them to bucket plans. So consumer retention strategies will matter going forward.    What do you think about the upcoming spectrum acution?   As I said, Bharti Airtel and Jio have sufficient spectrum. There may be gaps at one or two places, but not across the country. The other operators like Idea, Vodafone would definitely need to participate in this auction. Comparing the supply in this spectrum auction versus the total quantum of spectrum that is with the operators, I think this is going to be one of the most one-sided auctions. There is a lot more supply than before and I do not expect too many big surprises.  

