URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/waiting-for-a-rate-cut-for-faster-growth-rbi-may-need-to-hike-rates/articleshow/52793813.cms

Title : Waiting for a rate cut? For faster growth, RBI may need to hike rates - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Nikhil Gupta,MOSL,Inflation,ICRA,Financial Services,Crude oil

Date :  Jun 17, 2016, 01.58 PM IST

Document ID : 935

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian economy's honeymoon with low inflation seems to be coming to an abrupt end.     Retail and wholesale inflation have now risen for two consecutive months. CPI inflation rose from 4.83 per cent in March to 5.76 per cent in May, hitting a two-year high while WPI inflation has edged up from -o.4 per cent to 0.9 per cent in the same period.     "It is definitely not a pretty picture that we got from the CPI print. We have had a second month of sharper-than-expected uptick. Certainly, that is some cause for reflection," said Aditi Nayar, Senior Economist, ICRA.     However, the price gauge is still around RBI's long-term target of 5 per cent and hence, there has been no easing in the clamour for RBI to cut interest rates further.    What if RBI target is too high?   That's the assertion of a recent report by Motilal Oswal Securities and Motilal Financial Services, titled India 2020: Consumption driven to investment led - Why & How?     "Notwithstanding the recent sharp deceleration in CPI-based retail inflation, the current inflation is still higher than the medium-term target of 4 per cent," the report pointed out.     "We believe today's Indian economy must be compared with the previous slowdown in the early 2000s rather than the boom period of 2005-08. This comparison tells us that current retail inflation is much higher," it said.     That said, should the Reserve Bank of India look at raising rates instead of cutting them?    1) 10% growth needs lower inflation:  As the low inflation trajectory is somewhat reversing due to a more than 25 per cent jump in crude oil prices and a spike in food inflation due to delayed sowing, MOSL believes it will be difficult for the policymakers to sustain an 8 per cent GDP growth rate, leave alone reaching the 10 per cent target.     "Not only might the economy find it difficult to grow at 10 per cent by 2020, it might also find it challenging to maintain 8 per cent growth," MOSL said in the report.     "One of the key changes necessary for the economy to move to a sustainable growth path is inflation, which must fall towards 2 per cent at least for a few quarters," the report said.     To achieve that, RBI may have to revert to a rate-hiking cycle and not go on a rate-cutting spree, as interest rates are one of the biggest weapons in the fight against inflation.    2) Investment needs savings:  The only way to perk up savings in the economy is to incentivise citizens to deposit money in banks and that can happen if interest rates are attractive.     Motilal Oswal believes consumption-driven growth in the country has come at the cost of reduced savings. Consumers have spent largely out of their savings as disposable income has failed to catch up with rising aspirations.     "Notably, India's consumption has been relatively resilient amid weak disposable income growth. As a consequence, household savings in India have fallen to the lowest level in two decades," Nikhil Gupta said in the report.     "As a result of falling savings and narrower CAD, the investment rate has also fallen. An increase in national savings is a necessary condition for the investment rate to pick up again."   

