URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/premium-valuation-uncalled-for-in-bob-sbi-alone-can-compete-with-private-banks-santosh-singh-haitong-securities/articleshow/53718895.cms

Title : Premium valuation uncalled for in BoB, SBI alone can compete with private banks: Santosh Singh, Haitong Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stocks,So,Santosh Singh,premium,new,Market,in,et now,ET,earnings,debate,Baroda,Bank of Baroda,Balance Sheet

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 11.31 AM IST

Document ID : 644

Content:
  in a chat with ET Now, Santosh Singh, Haitong Securities, says downgraded BoB stock to a neutral and clearly it is no different than any other PSU bank in terms of asset quality. Edited excerpts       ET Now: Do you think there was an adjustment in expectations from SBI's earnings given what Bank of Baroda and a slew of other PSU banks and this concern about asset quality worsening? SBI has given a ray of hope so to speak for the sector. Even so, the chairman has admitted that the resolution process when it comes to bad loans has been slower than expected and now it is up for a matter of debate really so to speak that how many quarters more do we see this adjustment?         Santosh Singh    : The way we look at SBI or the corporate focussed bank is that the deterioration in the quality, the new slippages coming in or the new stressed assets formation is slowing down and that is a positive. So the new stressed assets formation is slowing down but at the same time what we are also talking about is that from the existing stressed assets, there will be much slippage to the gross NPLs.     Hence our view is that next two to three quarters, we are going to see gross NPL increasing but at least the increase in the stressed assets will not be as sharp as we have seen in the last three-four quarters. But at the same time, what we would like to highlight is that if one is watching gross NPS and if an increase in gross NPL turns out to be sort of a negative number, we are not concerned about that and hence clearly we are looking at banks which have got the balance sheet strength to tackle those stressed assets which they have already highlighted.     SBI is the only one amongst the PSU banks which we think can handle it without any dilution for the shareholders and also SBI is the only one which can compete also with the private guys where there is growth available in the market.        ET Now: Hopes are high from the Bank of Baroda as well as Union Bank, particularly Union Bank, with this quarter's numbers and the fact that Bank of Baroda's management has not managed market expectations very well in the outlook for asset quality. What is the view on both these names?         Santosh Singh:    We cover Bank of Baroda and just after the Q3 and Q4 results when everyone was so bullish, we downgraded the stock to a neutral and clearly our view was that Bank of Baroda is no different than any other PSU bank in terms of asset quality and management bullishness at that particular point was sort of uncalled for. So what we are talking about is that out of all the stocks, all the PSU banks, Bank of Baroda has the balance sheet to sort of stand in all this crisis situation but at the same time it is not going to significantly differ from a lot other PSU banks in terms of deterioration in the credit quality and hence we think the premium valuations which it once used to command was not called for and it is not going to be one of the outperformers in the space.  

