URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/ceos-must-learn-to-not-take-success-too-seriously-in-life-sanjay-kapoor/articleshow/53611451.cms

Title : CEOs must learn to not take success too seriously in life: Sanjay Kapoor - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Startups,Sanjay Kapoor,Micromax,India Inc.,Golf,Genesis Foundation,DCM Shriram group,CEOs Sing For Kids

Date : Aug 09, 2016, 11.12 AM IST

Document ID : 275

Content:
     Sanjay Kapoor can easily be called a boardroom baron, donning many hats in his 32-year-old career. From the DCM Shriram Group to Bharti Airtel and Micromax, he has built and managed teams. He believes that corporate success hinges on teamwork. And when he is not strategising in the corner office, he loves playing golf and listening to Ghulam Ali.         Over the weekend,    Lopamudra Ghatak    caught up with him on the sidelines of the "CEOs Sing For Kids" organised by the Genesis Foundation where he sang a melodious Md Rafi number.     Q. You have spent 32 years in the industry. What has been the most important life lesson of your corporate career?    One of the biggest lessons that I have learnt in my three-decade-long career is that you are only as good as the teams that you manage to build. In order to be successful, CEOs and CXOs have to build teams which are better than them in every aspect. Also, CEOs must learn to not take success too seriously in life.    Q. Why would you say that?    Because a sense of arrogance and complacency sets in when corporate chieftains start taking success too seriously. I think the most-successful leaders who would be able to sustain themselves over a longer period are the ones who are humble about their success. Humility is key to sustaining success over time.    Q. You have worked with large conglomerates like Xerox, Shriram Group and Bharti Airtel. You have done traditional business and also helped start up a newbie like Micromax. What do you think is the DNA of India Inc. that is shaping up?    I think India Inc. for a very long time, has been dominated by 70-odd families in the country who own virtually 70 per cent of the nation's wealth. I think that is going to get democratised over time as a newer self-made generation comes up. This new lot is picking up business ideas and solving problems that the old world neither could ever conceive of nor is probably proficient to deal with it. They have not inherited any wealth which has been passed over from one generation to the other. Therefore, I think they are open to sharing wealth with others.     Personally, I think that in times to come, there will be entrepreneurs who will come out of nowhere in life and build success stories. This opportunity did not exist two decades ago. Today, a guy could come from any place on earth and if he has the right passion, the right problem, the right idea, he could be on his way to build something phenomenal.     ​    From the DCM Shriram Group to Bharti Airtel and Micromax, Sanjay Kapoor has built and managed many teams. (Image: www.twitter.com)   What are you planning to build next?    Now my life is divided between consulting, mentoring start-ups and entrepreneurship programmes, and nurturing talent. I do not want to do one single thing. I want to do multiple things and I am enjoying the multiplicity of what I am doing.    What do you do when you are not multi-tasking between consulting and mentoring?    I like watching movies and spending time with the family. I used to play golf regularly for a long time. But for the past six-seven years, I have not played enough. I have also done a lot of adventure sports, right from bungee-jumping to paragliding and river-rafting. Also, music has been, singularly, my biggest stress-buster. Whenever I feel stressed, I will put on my earplugs and listen to music.    What is the kind of music you like?    I am a die-hard Bollywood fan. Mohammad Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Manna Dey are some of my all-time favourites. I am also a big Mehdi Hassan fan and I really love his renditions. On my iPad I have close to 2000 songs, including Farida Khanum, Begum Akhtar and Bade Ghulam Ali Khan  saab.   Read More:  The luxe life of Yahoo's Marissa Mayer: Haute couture, high art & lavish parties  

