URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/media/entertainment/ufo-moviez-sues-20-cinema-operators-for-breach-of-contract/articleshow/53731218.cms

Title : UFO Moviez sues 20 cinema operators for breach of contract - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : UFO Moviez,rights,Mumbai,India,end,distribution,Cinema,Bombay,advertising

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 02.44 AM IST

Document ID : 46

Content:
  MUMBAI: UFO Moviez, India's largest digital cinema distribution network and in-cinema advertising platform, has dragged 20 single screen theatre owners and operators to the Bombay High Court for allegedly breaching contract and joining rival distributors. The traditional cinema operators, however, argued that the Mumbai-headquartered firm is indulging in pressure tactics by forcing one sided agreements and lawsuits, which UFO Moviez has denied.     The company has filed 20 such cases in the Bombay High Court, asking the respondents to deposit over Rs 55 lakh towards compensation for the digital cinema equipment and another Rs 55 lakh towards damages at 18% interest. "20 applications seeking various injunctive reliefs have been filed against various theatre owners seeking enforcement of our various rights under legally binding contracts," said Rajesh Mishra, CEO - India operations at UFO Moviez, adding the company is seeking enforcement of its various rights under "legally binding" contracts. The dispute started when a clutch of single-screen owners tried to terminate the 10-year equipment lease agreements (ELA) that they had signed with UFO Moviez.     "The petitioners learnt that one of its competitors is approaching and luring its customers, including the respondent, and instigating to wrongfully terminate the ELA and advertising agreement on false and flimsy pretext," reads UFO Moviez' petition, a copy of which was reviewed by ET. The company has engaged law firm ALMT Legal to advise on the case. However, one of the cinema owners, who has received the court notice, said on condition of anonymity that the agreements that UFO had forced two years back were heavily lopsided. "For single screen owners, UFO's services are proving to be very costly. If we are trying to end the contract, they are using their dominant position to scare us with lawsuits."     "There were no options earlier. Now if I am getting similar service from another party, and want to terminate the contract with UFO, they are not letting me," said another cinema owner from a small town in Karnataka. Most of the cases are from Karnataka, while some are from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.     However, Mishra denied that UFO Moviez is indulging in any kind of pressure tactics. "UFO Moviez has engagements with 5,000 theatre screens across India through legally binding contracts that have been mutually agreed and accepted by both parties."  

