URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/use-euphoric-highs-to-book-profit-on-sbi-ajay-srivastava-dimensions-consulting/articleshow/53720378.cms

Title : Use euphoric highs to book profit on SBI: Ajay Srivastava, Dimensions Consulting - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,Unitech,stocks,So,Retail,real estate,premium,portfolio,place,people,News,new,NASDAQ,n,mutual funds,mutual fund,markets,market share,Market,liquidity,LIC Housing Finance,India,in,HDFC Ltd,global markets,gdp,et now,ET,economy,Business,budget,Brexit,Baroda,Bank of India,Bank of Baroda,Auto,Allahabad Bank,Allahabad,Ajay Srivastava

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 01.23 PM IST

Document ID : 640

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Ajay Srivastava, CEO, Dimensions Consulting, says have got proof of diversion of funds against Unitech which they are furnishing to the Supreme Court tomorrow.. Edited excerpts  ET Now: What is your view on the market noise - a lot of good news, no bad news -- is it getting too noisy for the bulls?  Ajay Srivastava: It is getting wonderfully nice for the bulls and it is also getting wonderfully nice for the people who want to short the market except for the banking sector..  ET Now: You were making that point whether it is getting too noisy for the bulls or is it still okay?  Ajay Srivastava: I think it is still okay because two things it is a good bull market in which you are getting healthy corrections, you are getting interesting concepts to short. At the same time, as the market goes up, if you look at the sectoral apart from the banking sector, by and large which has been one way street other sectors have given phenomenal opportunities to book profits, revolve your capital and of course as in all India its market will have certain sectors which will underperform this market and we are very clear that these are the sectors if you really need to get out of or short you should be in the capital goods sector should be one big sector to be out of at this point of time. If you want to be long in some of the midcap names when you got to be transitionary, unless you are sitting with an Emami or something like that which you want to hold on for a long term. So I think it is an interesting market, it is not a clear cut winner so that everything is going to win in this segment and lots of stock picking requiring lots of churning capital is needed. So, very interesting markets.  ET Now: Whereas we may talk about GDP data, we can talk about GST, get excited about the fact that bond yields at a seven-month low the grain of truth here is that we are simply mapping global cues if NASDAQ is going higher we are going higher, if NASDAQ or developed markets are coming down we are simply coming down. So it is nice and cosy to draw these skewed correlations but there is only one correlation that we are simply aligning with global equities?  Ajay Srivastava: Of course, you are absolutely right and I think the triggers for the rise was the change in the global sentiment coinciding with the budget but that may be a coincidence or may be it aided the move upwards. But I think you are right to the extent that yes we will be driven by global flows. The only caveat I have put together is that if you look at the way the global markets are going, we are seeing stronger liquidity flows from the individual retail level. If you look at global markets, there is institutional money which is pouring in more than the retail money. So, qualitatively there is a difference in the rally that we see abroad and in India and we do not see a major migration of retail savings into equities abroad, including the US, that we are seeing here in India. If you look at the US mutual fund industry, it is not growing as robustly as Indian mutual funds are. So to that extent, there is a lot of pent up liquidity domestic in this country which has kind of aiding support to this market compared to perhaps with other global markets.  ET Now: Given a 4.5% surprise return after the Brexit vote for July, the whole thought process was that do we make that leap to all time record highs in August-September itself and if so what will take the market to that mark?  Ajay Srivastava: I think for Indian markets, the good part is that this is the best part of the market, this is the festive season where the entire dispatches go in and almost 40% to 50% of economic activity is focused around these three months. So if there has to be a decisive move, it has to be in these three months because if these three months do not pan out for most companies including consumer companies, auto companies etc. then it is very difficult to see triggers in the next two quarters to come by. So if it has to happen, this is the quarter to happen. Everything is good and this is the best performing season for all the companies. So to that extent, in terms of pure timings, the market I think is conducive for it. If does not happen in this quarter, then I will wonder in next two quarters what will be the triggers to take it up.  ET Now: I if I take your opening statement which is a lot more bullish than what I have heard you in the recent past, what would you be betting on. Here, let us assume that the rally carries on for the foreseeable future for the next 1-3 years. I am discounting a few checks here and there. What is it that you think is a port of call the first and the second ports of call?  Ajay Srivastava: Let me put it this way first let me answer the question is that what should not be the port of call and what is not. So, we are staying clear of capital goods because I think we are going to see a major fall in the order book as time goes by. Let us be very clear that we are not going to be in the basket called capital goods whether big and small. The one bucket which definitely is the first port of call is cement and the reason being two-fold; a) consolidation play has removed the weaker hands from the markets who were desperately discounting in the market to get cash flows in and b) capacity addition has been minimal in the last two years and in the next four years, we do not foresee any significant capacities. So if you look at it sectorally apart from banking which will remain strong for the reason of RBI protecting the banks, I think it is very clear the private sector banks will keep outperforming the sector by and large.  The cement would be the first port of call that we see, the second one which will decisively change is going to be the auto sector because if it works well this quarter will trigger off a multiyear performance on the volume front. So far, the performance has been on margins and not volumes but now even Maruti at the best times had a 6-7 or 7% margin growth. This is the first time they are looking at double digit volume growth.  So, cement is a first place; auto would be the second and a dark horse among stronger midcaps is Emami. We have a holding in Emami. I think they will keep outperforming this market over a period of time, they have done well.  Intermediate companies like chemical companies have done reasonably well and so would be a place where you can hide for sometime but not large amount of money at this point of time. This is the kind of sectoral play that we are looking at for our customers. We have NBFC plays in just two companies. We are very selective. NBFCs have run up quite a bit but I think these two companies would outperform the rest of the market so this is a way we would structurally divide the portfolio.  We definitely zero on IT, we have been zero for long time. Pharma we may revisit it may be three to six months down the line because I think sooner or later it will hit the bottom and then there will be time to start picking up pharma again.  

