URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/media/entertainment/How-Saregama-India-is-using-its-rich-portfolio-of-music-to-pivot-into-new-direction/articleshow/53790108.cms

Title : How Saregama India is using its rich portfolio of music to pivot into new direction - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vikram Mehra,times infotainment,Tardeo,Sunday ET,Saregama India,Sanjiv Goenka,KPMG

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.20 AM IST

Document ID : 966

Content:
  A meeting with Asha Bhosle can be humbling, for various reasons. Anyone from the music industry is easily in awe of the legendary singer. Vikram Mehra, the managing director of Saregama India, the erstwhile Gramophone Company of India, is no exception.     However, when he dropped in at Bhosle's house in July, Mehra was also looking out for the singer's collection of old 78 rpm vinyl records. Bhosle did not disappoint. In fact, she even played her old songs on the records on her vintage windup gramophone for Mehra.        Bhosle has collected almost her entire life's work on these discs. For Mehra, a recent entrant in the 78 rpm record collectors' club, who has so far managed to buy only two, it was humbling indeed. It was only after joining Saregama India as managing director in October 2015 that Mehra used the company connections to acquire for himself a vintage gramophone and the two discs.     The symbolism of the vintage piece sitting in Mehra's office in Tardeo in central Mumbai is not lost. It shares space with a few 150-song pen drives that have been packaged in audio cassette-sized boxes: Saregama's latest audio offerings. The office itself has a similar decor theme — tubas turned into lamp shades, and paintings of old Bollywood leading men romancing their heroines.     Saregama, a company from the RP-Sanjiv Goenka group, is turning a new leaf, betting on new technology and its legacy — a huge portfolio of Indian music, with 1.17 lakh tracks. "We are trying to do a lot and have to fail fast if we have to," says Mehra.     Great expectations   Saregama India has been buzzing with expectations for more than a year now, especially on Dalal Street. After a scorching run through the month of July 2015, starting around the Rs 200 mark on July 1, the Saregama scrip scaled a high of Rs 499 on July 29.     The spike was probably created by the buzz around Mehra's appointment. Reliance Capital bought a 6.8 per cent stake in the company on December 28, 2015. Around the same time came the buzz around the demerger of a Saregama subsidiary that owns the Open magazine, sustaining the scrip price at Rs 350-400.     The RP-SG Group has some ambitious plans on media (Goenka himself had told ET Magazine in May that a well laid out plan and acquisitions in media are in the works). The price, however, soon settled down to more earthy levels (Rs 250.45 on Friday, August 19, 2016).     According to some analysts, even this is too high. In May, when the share price was at Rs 310, ICICI Securities analysts Bhupendra Tiwary and Sneha Agarwal wrote in a report: "The company trades at expensive valuations of 31x P/E on a trailing 12 months basis, which is the same as that of Entertainment Network India Ltd (ENIL), market leader in the radio space and with a superior financial profile. We believe the company has to deliver on the fundamental metrics to justify such valuations."     ENIL is a subsidiary of Times Infotainment Media Ltd, a holding firm promoted by Bennett, Coleman & Co Ltd, of which ET Magazine is a part. The demerger of the Open subsidiary has not come through yet.     Given its centuryold history, and its portfolio, Saregama's turnover of Rs 214 crore for 2015-16, with a net profit of Rs 7.5 crore, also come out as underwhelming numbers. It has made much better profits in the past and its sales have been in the Rs 100-200 crore range for 10 years. The stagnating financial numbers are pointers to a bigger challenge called obsolescence.     Over the last decade the company has constantly grappled with changing technology and an almost disappearance of one of its main revenue sources, first the sale of cassettes and then CDs.     And further change is at hand. As Jehil Thakkar, head of media and entertainment at KPMG, points out: "The business models across the world are changing. Ownership of music on hardware as in a CD or even music software is slowly giving way to streaming services and online access." For ages, Saregama has had assets on the ground, recording studios in different cities and a factory in Kolkata.     Its entire business model has been redundant for more than a decade. Even Saregama's decision to launch its music portfolio on pen-drives, 150 songs in a box, looks a short-term strategy.     It may beat piracy in the short run but, as Thakkar of KPMG points out, that thanks to streaming and the almost always-on model of players like Gaana or Saavn, the music industry today is not worried about piracy so much as it wants to figure out the business model of the future.     "I think what will work in India in future is the access model. The telephone or internet services provider will acquire content to provide to its users, and this will be the main revenue source for the owners of the music intellectual property," adds Thakkar.    Tech punts   Saregama has been licensing its music to streaming apps for some time now and has seen that revenue grow at a cumulative annual rate of 12 per cent over the last four years and accounts for more than 60 per cent of its sales.       Over the last one year, Mehra has focused on tech innovations. "While the young Indian wants to listen to Bollywood and the latest releases, there is a huge market of older people with enough money who want to listen to songs from an earlier generation. Then people also want to make gifts for their parents, and what can be better than music from the parents' own generation," says Mehra, pointing out that Saregama is best positioned to meet these demands.     "Most of old Bollywood songs, almost half of India's classical music and the best devotional music, are owned by us," he says. Last year, the company launched two of its own apps, one for devotional and other for classical music.     It is working with the streaming services for mainstream Bollywood, but investing in technology for the niches. Both the apps are paid apps and have a download to pay ratio of 5 per cent, which Mehra claims is phenomenal. "The traction for devotional music is faster so we are pushing it aggressively."     Apart from that, Saregama is now offering its songs at Rs 2 per piece — across media, whether they are downloaded off the web or bought on pen-drives. Saregama is also selling music on high-definition wav files for connoisseurs at Rs 10 per number, and says Indians based in Singapore and Hong Kong are big buyers of this portfolio of music in the wav format.     Around 35 per cent of the revenues of Saregama come from television content. Saregama has a strong alliance with Sun TV, where it retains ownership of is content and also gets a few slots to sell for advertising revenue. Saregama selectively does some Hindi shows, with an eye on owning the intellectual property. The business also grows faster.     "We have to continue to create IP to be able to monetise IP," Mehra points out. Saregama remains focused on creating content where the company gets to own the rights; and for television, too, the focus now is to produce more for over the top platforms (OTT — like Hotstar or Sony Liv) that are also looking for content created exclusively for them.     Saregama has also created music videos in the classical and devotional genres by taking artists to perform exclusively at famous locations and launching such music videos on various OTT platforms.     That is not all, Saregama is also working its old contacts. It often licences out its own old music for remixes, and this process has led the company to revive its relationships with the music industry and music directors.     "We are on the lookout for acquiring new music properties. Today, you have to get in at the stage when a movie is being planned, and that is what we plan to do," Mehra says. Internally, Mehra has also focused on some housekeeping changes.     While all the employees at the defunct Kolkata factory have been successfully offered a voluntary separation, the company has hired heavily in Mumbai, bringing in techies who can navigate the online world much better.     With this dual outgo, employee costs went up from Rs 37 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 58 crore in 2015-16, but Mehra sees this as an investment that while muting profits for 2015-16, would sustain the company in future.     After a loss of Rs 96 lakh in the March quarter, Saregama recorded a small profit of Rs 1.76 crore in the June 2016 quarter. "The company had not grown for the last three years. In 2015-16, we have seen 20 per cent growth," says Mehra.    Restructuring ahead   Saregama's moves are almost akin to a tech startup that uses its current business to pivot in a new direction, only difference here being this company is a listed entity with responsibilities for paying dividends.     Can Mehra manage this change while keeping public shareholders happy? For answers to these questions, Mehra, points towards Kolkata, the headquarters of the group. However, fresh queries sent to Sanjiv Goenka and RP-SG Group on whether Saregama needs to raise financing to back its technology punts, or if there is a timeframe for the demerger of the subsidiary that owns Open magazine and the media business of the group, and whether the land at Kolkata factory is likely to be sold soon, were not answered.     Mehra and Saregama, however, have the benefits of a tailwind. The KPMG-Ficci report on the music industry in March 2016 had predicted that the industry in India will double between now and 2020, growing from Rs 1,100 crore to Rs 2,060 crore. Those are good odds for the technology bets placed by Goenka and Mehra on Saregama. And also a cushion for, as Mehra said, "failing fast" and getting back on track.  

