URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/mf-news/1-lakh-crore-of-mutual-fund-investments-may-be-frozen/articleshow/53296670.cms

Title : 1 lakh crore of Mutual Fund investments may be frozen - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : mutual fund,investment,Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,FATCA,Association of Mutual Funds in India

Date :  Jul 20, 2016, 11.09 AM IST

Document ID : 874

Content:
  Mutual fund (MF) investments worth Rs 1.1 lakh crore are at the risk of being frozen over non-compliance with tax information sharing law FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act).     India has signed an inter-governmental agreement with the US for implementing FATCA, which is part of an anti-tax evasion regime designed to locate income and assets held by US persons in offshore accounts. According to FATCA guidelines, the information should be collected by fund houses from investors. All that fund houses want to know is whether investors pay taxes or have a tax residency in a country other than India. Any undisclosed investments would be found and reported to the tax authorities. The deadline for furnishing information as part of the compliance is August 31.     The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) is working on a common procedure involving leading MF transfer agents such as CAMS to make compliance easier for investors. The industry body has also requested market regulator Sebi to freeze non-compliant accounts instead of shutting them from August 31.     "MF investments that do not comply with FATCA would be around Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. Most of these investments are in equities," AMFI CEO CVR Rajendran told TOI. "We are trying to reduce the burden for investors and working on a single-window procedure on the lines of common KYC (know your customer) for FATCA. It is technically possible," he said.     Investors would get the benefit of any uptrend in equity and other schemes in case the MF account is frozen because of non-compliance. But investors cannot withdraw money, make fresh investments and would not be able to receive dividends if they fail to comply. Closing of non-compliant accounts would lead to an upheaval in the industry as investments would have to be redeemed. "We don't favour it (closing of accounts). It is not possible," Rajendran stated.     According to AMFI, all mutual fund investors, regardless of when they started their investments, must be FATCA-compliant before August 31. The FATCA compliance gets complicated if an investor has invested in funds that are governed by different registrars. There are four registrars for mutual funds in India. "In that case, the investor has to undertake the FATCA compliance for each of four registrars or repeat the exercise four times," Suresh Parthasarathy, an independent investment advisor said.     Industry officials and financial advisors see FATCA as an 'irritant' as the share of NRI (non-resident Indian) investments in domestic MF schemes is negligible. Industry officials say that it would be difficult to locate investors who have changed their addresses and mobile numbers.     "Many (investors) have changed their mobile numbers. FATCA compliance is being done through an OTP (one-time password) sent to mobile phones. We can't do it in cases where investors have changed their numbers," say advisers. "We have to do a lot of work. But it is not possible to complete the exercise within the stipulated deadline," industry officials say.  

