URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-hcl-tech-has-field-day-gst-jitter-spooks-logistics-stocks-itc/articleshow/53523303.cms

Title : Mapping the market: HCL Tech has field day; GST jitter spooks logistics stocks, ITC - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : UK,tech,Tata Sons,Tata Motors,Tata Group,stocks,So,shares of corporate courier and cargo,Shares,Sensex,Open Interest,NSE,New Delhi,new,motilal oswal securities the,Motilal Oswal,MFL India,Market,Land Rover,Japan,Jaguar Land Rover,Jaguar,ITC,India,in,HDFC,HCL Technologies,HCL Tech,finance,earnings,Dow Jones,Docomo,Dalal Street,Bajaj Finance,Bajaj

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 03.53 PM IST

Document ID : 810

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Poor bulls of Dalal Street! When the world's spotlight was on them to perform, they ran out of gusto and slumped to the ground.     Not that you could blame them. Their foreign masters are having a pretty bad time themselves; so it will be foolish to assume they would have brought their A-game on a historic day when the much-awaited GST is on the cusp of becoming a reality.     The S&P; BSE Sensex, which held the fort above the 28,000 mark over the past few sessions, finally slumped below it to close at 27,697, down 284 points. The 50-share NSE Nifty50 ended with losses too, finally breaking below the 8,600 mark to close at 8,544.     Here's how the proceedings unfolded.    Logistic stocks succumbed to profit booking:  After going through the roof in the build-up to GST day, logistics stocks crashed on Wednesday. The counter was plagued by profit booking as traders and investors tried to take advantage of the runup in prices. Shares of Corporate Courier and Cargo and MFL India slipped as much as 5 per cent.       ITC's bad days might just be beginning: Shares of ITC faced a lot of flack, as investors ensured that the stock ends up being the second biggest laggard in the Sensex pack. ITC is pegged to be one of the biggest losers form the proposed GST, according to brokerage firm Motilal Oswal Securities. The stock lost 2.84 per cent.       HCL Tech made merry:  Shares of HCL Tech surged to close 3.23 per cent higher at Rs 826 after the company reported Street-beating earnings for the June quarter. The tech giant reported the highest growth in dollar revenue among its peers and got rewarded for its performance.       Tata Motors succumbed on Docomo's threat:  The fight between Tata Sons and Japan's Docomo is getting uglier by the day. After an UK court ordered the Tata Group to pay $1.17 billion in fine, the government stepped in to block the arbitration payment. That compelled Docomo into threatening Tata Sons. The threat is that Docomo may seize Tata's UK steel assets, but more importantly, a stake in the company's flagship Jaguar Land Rover. The stock closed 3 per cent lower at Rs 479.15.       Most active stocks of the day:  The HCL Technologies counter was buzzing most on the NSE, as the stock closed 3.12 per cent higher at Rs 826. It was followed by Bajaj Finance, which slumped 8.72 per cent to Rs 10,011, while HDFC weakened for the saw third straight day, slipping 1.3 per cent to Rs 1,325.       Spurt in open interest:  The Dow Jones Industrial Average saw the highest spurt in open interest (OI) in the derivative market. It was followed by Just Dial, which saw a 19.74 per cent spurt in OI as the stock fell 6.2 per cent. The third on the chart was PC Jewellers, which saw a 19.57 per cent spurt in OI even as the stock slipped 4.86 per cent.     

