URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/underweight-on-it-bullish-on-financials-gopal-agrawal-mirae-asset-global-investments/articleshow/53739100.cms

Title : Underweight on IT, bullish on financials: Gopal Agrawal, Mirae Asset Global Investments - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : yield,world,US,Subsidy,sub,So,ROE,Retail,News,mean,markets,Market,investments,India,in,Home loan,Gopal Agrawal,gdp,et now,ET,end,economy,earnings,dividend yield,China

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.44 PM IST

Document ID : 630

Content:
  in a chat with ET Now, Gopal Agrawal, CIO, Mirae Asset Global Investments, says combination of top line growth and the margin stability to upside is actually gives you a compounding growth story in the medium to longer run. Edited excerpts        ET Now: Let's discuss the overall outlook for the IT sector. Yesterday it was news on the negative side for Infy and the entire sector was dragged down but by and large even when it comes to the earnings, we have witnessed average revenue grow just by 1.2% which is less than half of the earnings posted in the same period last year. What is your outlook here?         Gopal Agrawal:    We are running quite underweight on IT sector because we still feel there is a headwind in certain verticals like BFSI and energy because of lower commodity prices and this has also impacted the overall IT sector. We expect some of the disturbances which are happening due to the digital to also impact the low end services. So, definitely volume growth will remain okay but there will be pricing pressure in the sector. So, the underweight in stance on the sector is likely to continue.        ET Now: Your outsize bet is financials now. Is this a play on the index because financials have a 35-37% weightage on the index. Are you mapping the index here or do you believe that financials irrespective of their weightage on the index, have a strong case?         Gopal Agrawal:    We certainly believe that the financials have a very strong case because it really reflects what the economy is doing.    Generally as the benefit of the seventh pay commission and other things come in and also we see the interest rates falling so definitely retail lending and the credit offtake on the retail side will certainly improve. I want to highlight that after the gap of nine years the first time we will see that the affordability to buy house up to 5 million rupee will increase because the lending rates EMIs are falling and the revenue or the salary increase are going to be higher.     So, definitely there will be a strong case for further home loan growth. So, in this case, we are very bullish on the retail franchises. On the bulk lender, we have to see globally what is happening. The commodity prices have stabilised and we have had a big rally in the bond market globally including India where we have seen roughly 60 bps rally in the bond market so which will lead to good trading gain for the PSU lender which will also help them to clear their books. So net-net I would say the stabilisation of global commodity prices rally in the bond markets also augurs well for the corporate lender in the times to come.        ET Now: If I look at the sum total of earnings and I am keeping some NBFCs and some consumer names aside the wow factor is missing I mean numbers have been okay, there are no downgrades but there is no scope to upgrade considering that we are trading at a PE multiple which is above historical averages the scope of PE expansion is limited so my limited point is earnings are okay, PE expansion is unlikely so why should markets go higher?         Gopal Agrawal:    The very basic fundamental reason is that this market is all about chasing the yields. Actually as we are seeing 35% of the world is trading with the negative yield and in US also, the S&P; 500 has a dividend yield 2% and 10-year is trading at 1.55%. It means the world is hunting for yields and the emerging markets like India where certain companies are at least compounding their earnings equal to nominal GDP growth rate of the country so that their multiples remain high, that will be the case until and unless there is a fundamental change in interest rate globally.        ET Now: I want to talk about the just taking a look as to some of the sectors etc. that Mirae Asset is fairly bullish on rather consumer discretionary and white goods remain top picks take us through the outlook as to how you see the earnings shaping up over here and what makes you so bullish?         Gopal Agrawal    : Consumerism is a theme we are very positive on and it will play out even for the next decade or so because what we have seen even in China when the per capita income crosses $1000 and till $4000 per capita you will see J-curve growth in demand actually and that is what it is reflected and it will be added by the Seventh Pay Commission implemented by the Central government. From this August salary, it will start trickling in and then in the next two years, the state government will also implement it. So, definitely it will give a big boost to the top line growth and with input prices remaining in a band, there will be a tailwind of margin expansion also. So the combination of top line growth and the margin stability to upside is actually gives you a compounding growth story in the medium to longer run.        ET Now: I just notice that you also have exposure to OMCs. Some would argue that the best of the gains could be behind OMCs because that one time gain which OMCs got because of a drop in crude and because of decontrol of fuel prices that adjustment is behind us. So, the best of the adjustment is behind us. Is best of the price action also behind us?         Gopal Agrawal:    I just want to add that investors are still not paying the right multiple because they have poor memory and they want to see oil touching $70 to 80 and then they want to see the government action on the subsidy. Because oil is still very benign sub 50, there is no burden on subsidy right now     So despite the significant marketing profits, ROE is upwards of 20%, trading at a single digit PE multiple at this point of time. It is happening because we have not tested the government action in the oil price at $70-$80, I can tell you that if the investors are more assured about government action, I think there is a lot of room for upside in OMCs.  

