URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/PM-Narendra-Modi-no-longer-trying-to-win-Pakistani-hearts/articleshow/53790266.cms

Title : PM Narendra Modi no longer trying to win Pakistani hearts - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : sundayET,Rajnath Singh,Narendra Modi,Mehbooba Mufti,Gilgit-Baltistan

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.15 AM IST

Document ID : 975

Content:
  India has upped the ante against Pakistan like never before, invoking for the first time the fragility of Balochistan and setting the stage for the cancellation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Islamabad later this year to attend the SAARC Summit.     What a turbulent eight months it has been. From Christmas Day in Lahore last year — when Modi dropped in to wish Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday and attend his granddaughter's wedding — to Independence Day past week, when the PM announced from no other venue than the Red Fort that the continuing unrest in Balochistan as well as Gilgit-Baltistan was now of Indian interest. In these eight months, Modi has gone from being regional statesman who sought to overcome national pain and loss for the sake of the greater, common good in the subcontinent to being just a prime minister blaming the foreign hand — namely, Pakistan — for several of India's ills.     India and Pakistan are back to their bitter sniping and name-calling. In the last 20 years or so, the bilateral relationship has been this bad only thrice before — after the Kargil conflict in 1999, after the Parliament attack in 2001 and after the Mumbai terror in 2008.    The Instigation   Certainly, this current phase of verbal abuse was started by Pakistan, criticising India at every forum, domestic and international, against human rights violations in Kashmir. As injuries by pellet guns blinded several score people and security forces killed 66 protesters, the severest crisis to confront India in modern times continues to dominate front and centre. The curfew in the Kashmir Valley has entered its 44th day, but it seems as if the Indian state is running out of options. The accession of Jammu & Kashmir to India in 1947 put the first spoke in the wheel of the two-nation theory. But in 2016, as India celebrates 70 years of freedom with Tiranga Yatras all over the country — there was one even in New York, launched by junior external affairs minister MJ Akbar — and Bharat Parv festivals on Rajpath in the heart of Delhi, the Kashmir Valley continues to burn and fester and explode.     Of course, Pakistan was ready and waiting to take advantage of any Indian weakness. It is a fact that Pakistan-sponsored militants, who had already infiltrated into the Kashmir Valley before the death of Burhan Wani on July 8, have been instigating emotionally charged stone-pelters and protesters on how to sharpen their weapons — stones, marble chips and boomerangs —and use them with maximum impact against security forces. Bahadur Ali, allegedly a terrorist from Lahore, was caught with weapons — he is proof, if proof were needed, of Pakistan's abiding interest in destabilising Kashmir.     But the bigger question is: Is the Modi government seriously surprised by any of this? After all, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, who is also a former director of the Intelligence Bureau, had all the files about Pakistan's continuing provocations in Kashmir, at his disposal, even when Modi went to Lahore in December 2015. It is possible that Doval may have demurred at the PM's suggestion that he attend the wedding celebrations with Sharif, but Modi knew what he was doing and showed him who was the boss. Certainly, too, the PM would have been furious at Sharif's falling in line with his army and the ISI and raising Kashmir internationally. It made the PM look terrible — this is the man that Modi had befriended and look how he has repaid him. Here was the double jeopardy. As Nawaz Sharif became politically weaker and weaker, Modi couldn't sustain his own gambit of peace with Pakistan.    Eye for an Eye   Unfortunately, the PM conflated Pakistan's provocations in Kashmir with the ongoing crisis of his own citizens. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad pointed out in the Rajya Sabha that in the history of India, there has never been a longer curfew in any other part of the country than in Kashmir. Home Minister Rajnath Singh went to Srinagar and ordered the banning of pellet guns, but they are still in use. BJP general secretary Ram Madhav, who brokered the coalition with the PDP last year, held a camp for young leaders in Patnitop recently, but there was no reaching out to Mehbooba Mufti. Mehbooba, finally, came to Delhi to talk to the PM, but nothing has happened since, not even an all-party visit to the Valley. In fact, from the ramparts of the Red Fort, where the PM spent 94 minutes talking about everything from LED bulbs to Balochistan, there was not one mention of the K-word.     The problem with the PM's invocation of Balochistan is not that India is afraid that the Pakistanis will use this as proof that Indians are interfering there, but that the PM is signalling the end of his winning-hearts Pakistan policy. Whether or not India will now overtly or covertly support Baloch insurgents sitting in Geneva or elsewhere, the PM will find it very hard to pick up the threads of a story of peace that he was writing in the subcontinent.     Even if this reinvented muscularity on Balochistan is a not-so-subtle message to the Pakistani establishment that this is an eye-for-an-eye for Kashmir, it is not clear how this will help the PM settle the problem in his own Valley. Will it give him, for example, greater courage to stop security forces from using pellet guns that cause such grievous injury? Or push Mehbooba to open a dialogue with the people on autonomy and its variants? One more thing. The main problem with this eye-for-an-eye approach is that it will end up making all sides blind.     The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist  

