URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/look-which-indian-firms-just-made-it-to-fortune500-do-you-own-these-stocks/articleshow/53333771.cms

Title : Look which Indian firms just made it to Fortune500! Do you own these stocks? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,Tata Motors,State Bank Of India,RIL,Reliance Industries,Rajesh Exports,New Delhi,Motilal Oswal,Land Rover,Jaguar,IOCL,India,HPCL,Hindustan Petroleum,Gold,earnings,Crude oil,Business,BPCL,Bharat Petroleum,Axis Capital,Auto

Date :  Jul 22, 2016, 12.01 PM IST

Document ID : 783

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Fortune magazine's latest list of 500 top companies in the world is out and seven Indian companies have managed to make the cut this time around, including the surprise entry of Rajesh Exports.     The list includes four public sector heavyweights, namely IOC (highest ranked Indian company), Hindustan Petroleum, State Bank of India and Bharat Petroleum. From the private sector, there is Reliance Industries, Tata Motors and Rajesh Exports.     These companies are the creme de la creme of the world's company, which have put in immense efforts to become the behemoth that they are today.     That said, are these Fortune500 companies worth betting on at Dalal Street? In other words, what do experts on Dalal Street think about these seven behemoths and their stocks.    Reliance Industries:  The energy behemoth, RIL, has once again surprised the Street with its June quarter earnings, making brokerage house CLSA to maintain its high-conviction buy rating on the stock.     "A 16 per cent PAT growth in June quarter, which was ahead of consensus, was driven by a large beat in refining. The start of projects worth $35 billion over the next six months could be a key catalyst for the company," feels CLSA, which has a target price of Rs 1,350 on the stock.     Investment banking firm Deutsche Bank, though, has pared its optimism on the stock, slashing its FY2017 EPS by 2 per cent and its target price to Rs 1,165 from Rs 1,175.    Tata Motors:  Ranked 226th by Fortune magazine, the firm has had an excellent year driven primarily by the stunning performance of Jaguar Land Rover and optimism on the Street is high with the stock hitting its 52-week high this month.     Brokerage Motilal Oswal has maintained a buy rating on the stock with a target price of Rs 524. In its last quarterly report, MOSL raised Tata Motors' EPS by 7 per cent for FY2017 and 2 per cent for FY2018.     "We have raised our EPS estimate for FY17/18 by 7 per cent/2 per cent due to upgrade in volumes, margins and lower tax for JLR and higher pound/rupee rate for JLR consolidation. Also, lower tax in standalone business support earnings upgrade," MOSL said.    State Bank of India:  The largest public sector lender in the country has had a lot to deal with this past year. Seeing its profit drop for two consecutive quarters and fighting a battle against bad loans requires its share of energy.     But, that hasn't had any impact on how some brokerages feel for the bank and its stock. CLSA maintains an outperform rating on the stock with a target price of Rs 220, saying that, "Merger with subsidiaries may impact near-term earnings but bring synergy in medium-term. We like the stronger deposit-franchise, capital-adequacy and asset quality relative to other PSUs."    Axis Capital is buoyant on the bank following its focus on long-terms gain. "The long-term trend includes management guidance of relatively lower credit costs in FY17E, synergies instead of drags from merger of associates and watch-list much smaller than even some private peers," it said.    Rajesh Exports:  Perhaps not many people's choice to be a Fortune500 company at the beginning of the year, but those tracking the stock over the past year know how the company has risen by leaps and bounds.     Rajesh Exports is the owner of the world's largest gold mine, which it acquired from Valcambi for $400 million last year. The stock has grown close to 300 per cent in the past five years although its return this year has been dismal, down 34 per cent.     Investors focusing on earnings won't be disappointed given its 20 per cent rise in net profit and 191 per cent jump in sales at Rs 55,928 crore which enabled it to become a Fortune 500 company. Its order book was a whopping Rs 34,560 crore at end of March 2016.    HPCL, BPCL, IOC:  The exponential jump in global crude oil prices plus the marketing freedom provided by the government is seen to be aiding the oil marketing companies going ahead.     Brokerage firm Motilal Oswal has OMCs (BPCL/HPCL) as its top picks on Dalal Street.     "We expect OMCs (IOCL, BPCL, HPCL) to benefit from crude and product inventory gains, though margins are sequentially weaker," it said in a preview report for the sector ahead of its June quarter numbers.     "Against the backdrop of lower oil price regime, auto fuel pricing freedom and stable marketing margins, we retain OMCs (HPCL/BPCL/IOCL) as our top picks," it added.  

