URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/sbi-just-got-bigger-what-should-retail-investors-do-with-the-stock-now/articleshow/53767456.cms

Title : SBI just got bigger! What should retail investors do with the stock now? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : State Bank Of India,SBI,NPAs,Credit Suisse,CLSA

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 01.58 PM IST

Document ID : 49

Content:
  NEW DELHI: In a move to harvest cost synergies, broaden asset base and expand branch network, the boards of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as five associate banks have approved the swap ratio for the merger of these associate banks with India's biggest lender.     The five banks merging with SBI are State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur (SBBJ), State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Travancore, Bhartiya Mahila Bank and two other 100 per cent-owned unlisted associates - State Bank of Hyderabad and State Bank of Patiala.     As per the swap ratio, for every 10 shares of State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur (SBBJ), the shareholders will receive 28 shares of State Bank of India.     In the case of the other two associate banks, for every 10 shares of State Bank of Mysore and 10 shares of State Bank of Travancore, investor would get 22 shares of SBI in each case.     The shares of the other two associate banks - State Bank of Hyderabad and State Bank of Patiala will get cancelled since they are wholly-owned by SBI.     Analysts said the merger will be a long-term positive for SBI and investors holding the stock should remain invested.     Foreign brokerage BofA-ML has put a 12-month target price of Rs 300 on the stock. The global investment bank said SBI can re-rate to at least its cycle average or 1.78 times FY18 adjusted book value.     Asset quality should improve as the management expects NPL formation to be within guidance and earnings per share (EPS) to grow 27 per cent and 43 per cent in FY17 and FY18, respectively, post its balance sheet cleanup in FY16.     Here is what various global investment banks had to say on the merger:    BofA-ML: Medium-term merger benefits to outweigh costs    BofA-ML said the medium-term cost synergies from the merger should much more than offset the estimated Rs 30 billion cost of the additional wage and pension.     "Further, we think on a combined basis, the valuations assigned may be more positive compared with the standalone valuations the associate banks got as part of the SOTP," the investment bank said.     Enhanced comfort on asset quality front and pickup in growth remain strong catalysts for the stock to re-rate in the near future.    CLSA: Merger can drive cost synergies    CLSA said there would be a marginal dilution from the issue of shares but integration remains the key. Two listed banks are valued at above market cap while one is below.     The merger led to additional NPL provisions but it can also drive cost synergies which can offset the cost. The issue of shares to minority shareholders in the merging banks could dilute SBI share. But, dilution of SBI's shares could be limited to 2 per cent.    Deutsche Bank: SBI valuation not impacted | Target price Rs 280    The total issuance of equity capital would be 137m shares. There is a negligible positive change in the book value (BV) as the global investment bank is valuing the subsidiaries below its quoted net worth.     "We value SBI on a consolidated basis and hence the merger does not impact our valuations. We retain our positive view on SBI and our target price of Rs 280," said the note.    JPMorgan: Merger will improve market share    The net dilution is a minuscule 1.7 per cent given SBI itself held a large share in these subsidiaries. The global investment bank is of the view that the merger is a long-term positive for the SBI.     It will improve combined market share and could potentially unlock cost synergies, said the JPMorgan note on SBI. Incremental impact on stock price would not be significant as news was known.     The major synergy benefit would be on costs with staff and branch rationalization. However, asset quality outlook would remain the key driver for SBI.    Credit Suisse: Post-merger cost ratios to go up    The swap ratio is largely in line with the current market price, but the rise in non-performing asset (NPAs) of the subsidiaries remains a concern. Fresh share issuance would result in dilution of only 1.8 per cent.     SBI associate banks consolidated NPAs have reached 9.1 per cent post clean-up in 1Q and is likely to rise further before the merger.     Every 1 per cent of the additional loans recognised as NPA will erode consol net worth by around 1.5 per cent, said the Credit Suisse note.     Post-merger, cost ratios are likely to go up as per employee cost for SBI is higher. Material synergy benefits would accrue only in the long term, said the Credit Suisse note.  

