URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/iron-mountain-appoints-hitesh-gupta-as-managing-director-for-india-operations/articleshow/53631700.cms

Title : Iron Mountain appoints Hitesh Gupta as managing director for India operations - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Storage,Iron Mountain,India,Hitesh Gupta,Growth,expansion,appointment,acquisition

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 01.37 PM IST

Document ID : 188

Content:
  BENGALURU: Storage and information management services company Iron Mountain has appointed Hitesh Gupta as its managing director for Iron Mountain India, said a company statement. Gupta will be responsible for steering the company's business in India during a period of fast change and ongoing expansion to help Iron Mountain deliver on its global strategy for growth.     He joins the company from Writer Information Management, where he served as CEO for close to seven years and oversaw the significant growth and geographic extension of Writer's business country-wide.     The appointment of Gupta is part of Iron Mountain's rapid investment and expansion plan in India, which includes building a new management team and making strategic acquisitions to expand the company's footprint in India.     "Growing Iron Mountain's presence in India underscores our commitment to deliver on our strategy of expansion through acquisition and to serve our customers locally, nationally and globally. Appointing Hitesh Gupta brings unique and invaluable experience of the Indian market to the company that will help us deliver on our plan for aggressive growth in order to help our customers address their storage and information management challenges across the country," said Ted Prittie, SVP for emerging markets at Iron Mountain.     Gupta has held senior roles in the finance and information management sectors for the last 20 years. Prior to his position with Writer, he had key roles with ICICI Bank, Centurion Bank of Punjab and Karvy Finance.     "I look forward to bringing my experience and understanding of the Indian market to the role. Businesses in most sectors here are maturing fast and, as they grow and succeed in India, they face increasingly complex information management challenges and requirements. It is an environment that demands the help and support of a trusted partner to protect and manage their critical information assets. I welcome the opportunity to bring best-in-class practices from the information management category leader to businesses in my country," said Gupta on his new appointment.     Iron Mountain has been operating in India since 2006. Over that time, it has acquired record and information management companies NAX and Safehouse, and the records and tape management business of ITCL, India's largest independent corporate trustee and fiduciary service provider. These strategic acquisitions and the recent global purchase of Recall has increased Iron Mountain's customer base from 700 to 2,200 customers in India and doubled revenues in the past year.     "We will focus on partnering with large and mid-sized organizations across a range of highly regulated verticals such the public sector, banking, financial services, insurance and telecoms. This vertical focus will be coupled with continued service to our global customers," said Gupta.  

