URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/i-cannot-compromise-on-my-fitness-especially-when-i-am-running-a-health-startup-shashank-nd/articleshow/53765636.cms

Title : I cannot compromise on my fitness, especially when I am running a health startup: Shashank ND - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Shashank ND,Practo,Ola,National Institute of Technology,Bhavish Aggarwal

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 09.10 AM IST

Document ID : 709

Content:
  BENGALURU: Health startup Practo had an intense 2015. They raised $120 million in funding, added six businesses to their kitty, made five acquisitions, launched in four countries and recruited around 1,200 people.     They became the world's largest appointment-booking platform, clocking around 40 million appointments annually. This had its founder Shashank ND travelling within the country almost three days a week. There was no knowing "where the next fire will be." So, despite access to the country's best doctors, it took serious health issues and weight gain for the entrepreneur to realise that he just cannot take fitness for granted.     "When your company is in hyper growth and you are passionate and involved in building something, there are no weekends. You forget about everything, including yourself," says the 29-year-old modestly, tearing away from his choc-a-block commitments for a chat in his JP Nagar office. "But I realised that I cannot compromise on my fitness, especially when I am running a health startup!"     So what he could not do since launching Practo in 2008, he did in the last seven months. This involved developing a newfound love for adventure sports, early morning runs in Cubbon Park every weekend, participating in marathons and sweating it out by playing squash. Along the way, Shashank admits, came the realisation that every fitness form he chose mirrored his temperaments towards career and life.     Squash satisfied his love for speed. "I am a very efficiency focused and competitive person. The game, also, is just that." Playing with friends, who included Ola's Bhavish Aggarwal, introduced him to the extremist within. "I got into such a drive that at one point that I played for five hours straight. This is quite an extreme, so after a while, I moderated it." Since then, he silently admits, he has lost 27 kilos. Shashank's growing-up years — replete with ever-changing hobbies — was an indication of a restless personality, one that flowed with the tide. As a kid he was convinced he wanted to be a cricketer. While studying at National Public School at Rajajinagar, the passion shifted to stock-trading, as he believed they influenced the country's overall growth.     Between schooling and graduating in IT engineering at National Institute of Technology (Surathkal) , he was introduced to a CRT monitor and its Intel 386 processor by his mother, a Bharat Electronics employee. Then, there was no looking back. Practo happened in the final year of graduation. Love for coding became his bread and butter, but he did not mind it one bit. After all, building life-altering products was a "fun thing to do."     This year, he finally achieved the elusive "work-life balance" through adventure trips to Ecuador and Houston. Perhaps he took his entrepreneurial risk taking ability with him. How else would you explain a decision to snorkel in the middle of the Pacific Ocean at the Galapagos Islands without knowledge of swimming? "The waters were rough. I had a life jacket and knew just swimming basics. So I was thinking to myself- who would ever want to do this? But that is the risk one takes in a startup," he says.     This was followed by another action-packed skydiving trip to Houston. He has already planned his next — mountain-climbing in Africa. While he is not swimming in the Pacific, Shashank takes time out to run. He has completed 10k, 12k and a "couple of half marathons". He forces himself to go to bed early on Saturday nights, just to set a running rhythm on Sunday mornings. "We have this group of people, some of them pro runners. I pick things up from them and train," he says. On the radar is the Bengaluru Marathon in October. "The key is to keep practising," he says.  

