URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/invest/should-you-extend-tenure-of-closed-end-funds-to-gain-more/articleshow/53682326.cms

Title : Should you extend tenure of closed-end funds to gain more? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : NAV,mutual funds,ICICI Prudential Value Fund,ET Wealth,closed-end funds

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 355

Content:
  ICICI Prudential AMC's closed end equity fund ICICI Prudential Value Fund-Series 1, is due to mature in November this year, but the fund house has proposed to roll over the maturity date by two years to 31 December 2018. It has asked investors in the scheme to indicate their consent to the roll-over offer by sending in an approval slip before the maturity date. Alternatively, the investor can redeem his money at the applicable NAV on the existing maturity date.      Senior management at the fund house indicate that they are considering similar extension to the next fund in the series as well. Sankaran Naren, CIO, ICICI Prudential AMC, says, "We continue to have a constructive view on the market and believe there is enough scope for clocking further gains." The fund house maintains that rolling over will allow investors to continue to benefit from improving macro-economic data, visible earnings growth for corporates in the next 2-3 years and an improving micro-economic scenario. Should you take the fund house up on this offer?      Experts contend that investors may consider opting for the extension based on their asset allocation and money requirements. Hemant Rustagi, CEO, Wiseinvest Advisors, says, "Investors may continue with the investment for maintaining desired equity allocation and gaining from emerging market opportunities." If the investment was for a specified timeframe for a particular goal, investors may either redeem on maturity or continue with the fund while redeeming from any other open ended equity funds that have not performed well, he adds.     ICICI Prudential Value Fund-Series 1, which collected Rs 396 crore during the NFO in November 2013, has delivered top notch returns. It has paid out a combined dividend of Rs 5.75 per unit across seven intervals. Apart from this, it is currently sitting on an annualised gain of 26% in its NAV. Like most other closed-end funds launched around that time, this fund sought to exploit the prevailing valuation gap in companies that otherwise boasted sound fundamentals. It adopted the value investment approach to pick stocks mostly from the mid-cap basket which, at the time, was trading at a deep discount to the large-cap segment.     The closed end structure of these funds also allowed them to have a more focused approach and ride out conviction bets to their potential without having to worry about intermittent outflow (or inflow) of money during the tenure. In an open-ended fund structure, investors often fail to realise the full potential of the scheme by redeeming too early. The closed-end structure seeks to eliminate the be ha vi o ur al element by having a lock-in for the scheme tenure. This approach has work ed well for most funds launched around this time.     Over the past few months, ICICI Prudential AMC's fund has cut back on its exposure to the midcap segment in response to the huge rally in this basket. It has steadily built up large-cap exposure to protect the returns generated so far, and is likely to maintain this large-cap bias given the widening valuation gap between the two universes of stocks.  

