URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/from-a-glass-room-to-the-snooze-room-cheil-indias-new-office-is-a-delightful-workspace-to-be-in/articleshow/53609962.cms

Title : From a glass room to the snooze room, Cheil India's new office is a delightful workspace to be in - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : The glass room,The blue room,Spy Game,Neeraj Bassi,Cheil India

Date : Aug 09, 2016, 09.54 AM IST

Document ID : 276

Content:
 As innovation and creativity is at the core of what Gurgaon-based ad agency Cheil India does, it is not surprising that the organisation's workspace, on the 7th floor, of the Two Horizon Centre, reflects that. The group's 500 employees shifted into this new space in May this year and have been loving it since.   Nod to mad men   "The creative room is our Mad Men Ideas Manufacturing Room. Inspired by Roy Lichtenstein, the black and white decor opens new roadways to some kickass ideas." -  Shiv Sethuraman, Group President (South West Asia).     Mad Men Ideas Manufacturing Room (Image: BCCL)   Into the blue   "The blue room is my favourite in the entire office. The look and the feel of the room transports me to a yacht on the wide open sea... uplifting the mind and soul. The view overlooks a golf course, which is an add-on." -  Kundan Joshee, Senior Vice President.     The Blue room (Image: BCCL)   Transparency at work   "The glass room is where we conduct our serious meetings. It's in the heart of the office so that we get the desired attention we need from the agency. Just kidding." -  Neeraj Bassi, Chief Strategy Officer.     The glass room (Image: BCCL)   Rest stop   "When the job requires you to be on your toes, it is good to have a place where you can put your feet up and enjoy a siesta. That's our snooze room for you." -  Madhuri Chadha, Head of HR.   Spy game   "When the team is racking their brains over some serious discussions, the meeting room is where you will find us. It's our version of working on top secret projects at M's call, like 007." -  Sagar Mahabaleshwarkar, Chief Creative Officer  .      The meeting room (Image: BCCL)  

