URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/be-cautious-be-ready-for-time-correction-mihir-vora-max-life-insurance/articleshow/53771432.cms

Title : Be cautious, be ready for time correction: Mihir Vora, Max Life Insurance - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : stocks,So,NPA,News,Mihir Vora,mean,markets,liquidity,insurance,Infosys,in,et now,ET,economy,earnings

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 04.57 PM IST

Document ID : 616

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Mihir Vora, Director & CIO, Max Life Insurance, says we are back to normal valuations for PSU banks, the extreme level of pessimism is no longer there. Edited excerpts       ET Now: How do you look at the trade in PSU banks, three months strong rally on the back of recapitalisation plans as well as expansion in the book, bottoming out of asset quality concerns, quarter one earnings are out of the way, what takes them higher from here?         Mihir Vora    : I would say we have seen a strong rally from extremely depressed valuations. So if you look at the situation from Jan to March, there was extreme pessimism so probably that was the time when there was too much of bad news being priced in. The fact that a lot of stocks have moved up significantly from those levels means that that level of extreme pessimism is not there and we are pretty much back to normal kind of situation as far as the valuations are concerned. However, barring maybe or two banks where there are issues which are of much less proportion compared to the others, the PSU banking system per se is still not out of the woods.     We do have a lot of the large groups which are for all practical purposes will not be able to repay a significant amount of the debt but which are still classified as NPAs. So this will come to roost at some point in time and more importantly I still do not see a path where there is visibility of capital for growth. So even if they manage to tide over their vows and even if they manage to tide over the NPA problems, they will still not have the capital to grow after providing for all the NPAs. So I would say we are back to normal valuations that extreme level of pessimism is no longer there and we see limited upside from these levels I would say.        ET Now: But in general if I have to summarise your thoughts, would you say that it is time to exercise caution or stay put, do not worry, just stay there.         Mihir Vora:    Now I would say a bit of caution is advised. Valuations are not cheap any more. We have had a very sharp move from April onwards and, of course, some of the small and midcaps have run up probably a little bit ahead of time. So I would say I would look forward to a little bit of time consolidation or time correction rather than a sharp downward correction because the downside support is really there from the global liquidity flows as you mentioned. So I would say time correction is what we should be looking for.        ET Now: I understand the big picture scenario for banks and financials. If the economy recovers you have to be there, 35% weightage you cannot ignore that. Now nobody likes PSU banks; markets love to own private banks and the toast of the town is NBFCs. My question to you is how are you picking your spots within the BFSI space and the reason why I want to ask your long-term outlook is because you have the liberty of keeping a stock for four, five, six years?         Mihir Vora:    Yes, absolutely. So the big picture is like this; you have 60-70% of the banking system which is PSU banks which really does not have the capital to grow and if the economy has to grow at 7-8%, then we need credit growth of at least 15%. So it will pretty much depend on the private sector banks and the NBFC sector to provide that 15% growth on a 100% base. You can see a sustained growth in the credit book of private sector banks and NBFCs which can surprise you for a long period of time. We are talking about probably 25% growth plus for these companies for at least three to four years. This means that though valuations do look stretched, you may see earnings catching up with valuations in a lot of the private sector financials. So we would prefer to be in segments where there is visibility of growth, even probably at a little bit of expensive valuations.        ET Now: More trouble is brewing up for IT. For Infosys, it could be a contract but for the sector at large, the concern is is that it is a contracting sector?         Mihir Vora:    Yes, I would say it is a sector which is mature now. It is a sector which is unlikely to grow at 15-20% for the foreseeable future in spite of the fact that of course it has some of the highest quality companies with very good ROCs, very good cash flows, very good ROEs but growth is constrained and we really have not seen any of the big companies do anything meaningful with the cash that they have accumulated, whether it is in acquiring capabilities of a meaningful size, I mean, inorganic acquisitions.     So it is a sector which one should buy when there is really bad news and valuations are beaten to absurd levels and probably it is a sector which I would not hold if I am bullish on the markets so at this point in time we have been underweight for a while and that is the stance we are like to be.  

