URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-nbfcs-have-a-field-day-britannia-proves-a-point/articleshow/53598599.cms

Title : Mapping the market: NBFCs have a field day; Britannia proves a point - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wockhardt Pharma,Wockhardt,stocks,Shares,Sensex,Reliance Jio,place,Open Interest,NSE,New Delhi,new,NBFCs,NBFC,Muthoot Finance,MotoCorp,market share,Market,Manappuram Finance,Lama,in,Idea Cellular,Hero MotoCorp,finance,economy,earnings,Dalal Street,Dalai Lama,Colgate-Palmolive,Colgate,Britannia Industries,Britannia,BPCL,Biocon,Bharti Airtel,Bharat Forge,Airtel

Date :  Aug 08, 2016, 04.23 PM IST

Document ID : 820

Content:
 NEW DELHI: Happiness is not something you get readymade. It comes from your own actions, the Dalai Lama said once upon a time.     And, Dalal Street is trying to live up to that wisdom every minute over the past one month.     It is buying happiness in droves almost every day, and today was no different. That buying spree saw the BSE Sensex jump 104 points to 28,182 on Monday. Its peer at NSE, the Nifty50 closed 28 points higher at 8,711.     Here's how things panned out on Dalal Street during the day.    HDFC the party maker:  Things have been volatile for India's largest housing finance company over the past few weeks. On some days, it ended up being a loser while on other days, it carried the Sensex on its shoulders to glory. Monday was one such day. The stock continued its winning run from Friday after snapping a five-day losing streak to close 1.70 per cent higher, contributing 1,363 points to Sensex gains.       RJio sword making its mark:  As Reliance Jio's formal launch draws near, Bharti Airtel and Idea Cellular are facing some defection from investors. Bharti Airtel's new initiative like cutting data prices by 67 per cent and making calls free for top-end users saw the stock take a 3.36 per cent beating. Idea Cellular followed suit, with a 2.64 per cent drop.       Britannia, Colgate new must-haves:  Shares of Britannia Industries and Colgate-Palmolive found their mojo back after stellar performance in June quarter earnings. Britannia jumped close to 10 per cent as revenues grew 8.2 per cent. Colgate-Palmolive caught investor fancy as it reported a 6 per cent volume growth. The stock closed 5.77 per cent higher at Rs 1,012.       Manappuram Finance becomes 200-bagger:  The NBFC company became the first 200-bagger of the year after rising another 5 per cent during the session. Above-normal monsoon rains and expectation of increasing market share with the revival of the economy made NBFCs like Manappuram Finance a must have for investors. Muthoot Finance, the only other stock to have delivered over 100 per cent return this year, rose 13 per cent, indicating good buying interest on the counter.       Most active stocks of the day:  Shares of BPCL stole a march on everyone to become the most actively traded stock on NSE in terms of value. The scrip ended the session 3.06 per cent higher. It was followed by Britannia, which gained 9.38 per cent, while Hero MotoCorp came in third with 0.18 per cent gain. Other big movers included SBI (down 0.04 per cent), Bharat Forge (up 0.95 per cent) and Wockhardt Pharma (down 10 per cent).       Spurt in open interest:  Hero MotoCorp saw a 61.56 per cent spurt in open interest in the F&O; market after delivering a set of strong numbers for the June quarter. The stock ended the day flat. Biocon followed Hero MotoCorp at second place with a 38.35 per cent spurt in OI as the stock closed 0.80 per cent higher. Other stocks that saw significant rise in OI included Wockhardt Pharma (36.74 per cent), Colgate (32.80 per cent) and Idea Cellular (26.59 per cent).     

