URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/army-chief-dalbir-singh-suhag-accuses-vk-singh-of-trying-to-block-his-promotion/articleshow/53751641.cms

Title : Army Chief Dalbir Singh Suhag accuses VK Singh of trying to block his promotion - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : YouTube,VK Singh,Dalbir Singh Suhag

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 11.12 AM IST

Document ID : 220

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian Army Chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag has accused General (retired) VK Singh, who is the Minister of State for External Affairs in the Modi government, of trying to block his promotion.     According to an   Indian Express   report, Suhag has filed an affidavit in Supreme Court, accusing the minister of trying to scuttle his promotion with "malafide intent and to arbitrarily punish him", adding that he was being "victimised for extraneous reasons". Suhag claimed the attempt was to block his appointment as Army Commander.     In his affidavit, Suhag alleged that VK Singh victimised him. Singh had slapped a ban on Suhag in 2012 for allegedly botching up an operation in Assam's Jorhat in 2011.     Suhag's charges come a day after Singh's wife, Bharti, filed a police complaint against a man, alleging that he has been trying to extort Rs 2 crore by blackmailing her with "doctored" audio-video clips to defame her husband.        In her complaint lodged at the Tughlaq Road police station, Bharti alleged that Pradeep Chauhan, a resident of Gurgaon, had even threatened her of "dire consequences" if the money was not paid. "We are investigating the matter and the accused has been questioned by us. He will be called for a second round of questioning soon. He is not yet arrested," said a senior police officer.     The FIR was filed under IPC sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on August 12. The complainant said Chauhan was known to her as a friend of her nephew. She alleged that he had been calling her for a few days threatening to make public the clips, contents of which were not known to her. The accused allegedly called her several times and threatened to "ruin" her husband's reputation. He allegedly called repeatedly on the night of August 8.     Bharti also alleged that the accused had posted a video on YouTube levelling false allegations against her husband and her family. She also expressed "grave threat" to her security, alleging that Chauhan was a "dangerous" man who carried guns. Singh's wife said there was a threat to her family's life including her two daughters.  

