URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/When-Dalits-threw-away-cow-carcasses-and-upended-hierarchies-in-Gujarat/articleshow/53788531.cms

Title : When Dalits threw away cow carcasses and upended hierarchies in Gujarat - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : una,Sunday ET,Narendra Modi,Independence day,Darbar community,Dalits,Chalo Una

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.18 AM IST

Document ID : 970

Content:
  By Shuchi Kapoor     On July 11, four Dalit boys were tied to a car in Una in Gujarat and publicly flogged by gaurakshaks for skinning a dead cow.     The viral video circulated across the country, a welt of a reminder of caste atrocities and discrimination against Dalits, of the horrifying social equation where man is considered less than a dead beast.      ( People capturing the Una march on their cellphones. Social media played a significant role in updating people on the movement)    Powerful movements rise from the deepest of scars. And it did. On August 5, as the country was getting ready to celebrate its 70th Independence Day, the Dalits in Gujarat started on their own freedom movement.      ( Muslims joined the Dalit Asmita Yatra as a sign of solidarity to fight oppression against minorities, especially in Gujarat)    Under the leadership of a 35-yearold lawyer-activist, Jignesh Mevani, the Dalit Asmita Yatra began from Ahmedabad to Una. A few NGOs pooled funds for the march, which collected people along the way and motivated many to join in.     Others got updates on social media through Dalit Camera. "Gai nu puchdu tamey rakho, amne amaari jameen aapo (Keep the cow's tail for yourself, but give us our land back)" and "Chalo Una" became the calls of the journey that wound its way through 400 kilometres of Gujarat. In every village, men and women, young and old, swore never to pick up animal carcasses or clean the gutters, or do manual scavenging.      ( Nearly 10,000 people amassed for the Dalit Asmita Yatra with Ambedkar on the flags and Jai Bhim on the lips)    "The cow is your mother, you take care of her when she dies," they told the gaurakshaks. The carcasses lay on the roads and no gaurakshak came to pick them up. There was backlash allegedly from the upper-caste Darbar community and the march had to be diverted to reach Una for its Azadi Kooch on Independence Day.      ( Dalits protesting in Amreli district against the arrest of seven people for allegedly stoning a policeman to death in the violence after Una incident. The protestors claim the policeman died after falling off his vehicle)    Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was ready to take a bullet instead of the Dalits. But while he could make time to pay his last respects to a religious guru in a nearby town, he ignored the need to show sympathy and solidarity with Dalits by paying them a visit.      ( Police patrols were deployed, anticipating a backlash to the march)     ( Republican Panthers, an activist group from Mumbai, joined the march in solidarity with Dalits. Their songs saw a wave of excitement among the protestors)    But over 10 days, the Una march effected a seismic shift in society and upended old hierarchies. The question that looms large after everyone has left Una is whether this uprising will gain momentum or buckle under pressure. As the next step, Mevani has announced a Rail Roko Andolan in September if their demand for land for Dalit families is not met.  

