URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/mf-queries-answered-by-manikaran-singal-cfp-good-moneying-financial-solutions/articleshow/53261286.cms

Title : MF queries answered by Manikaran Singal, CFP, Good Moneying Financial Solutions - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : savings,investment,equities,ELSS

Date : Jul 18, 2016, 11.52 AM IST

Document ID : 838

Content:
 Q: About 5 years back I had invested in some tax saving MFs. After that I went overseas and lost track. Now I would like to regularise them . I don't have any trace of correspondence. Can you please guide me how to trace these investments. -- Sankarshan   A:  There are 3 ways you may get your lost investment details. If you have your email id registered in different investments, then you may check out the consolidated account statement mail back service available on CAMS and Karvy websites. You may ask for summary of investments or even detailed transaction report from that link. Statement will be send to your registered email id.The second option is to visit registrars (CAMS/KARVY/FRANKLIN/SUNDARAM) offices in your area and they can help you trace the folios through your PAN number.And the third option is you may check your old bank statements, and find out which are the funds you were investing in and may then visit the respective AMC offices or call up there call center number to get the details.    Q: I want to invest in mutual funds. My target is to generate Rs 5 crore in 20 years. I can invest Rs 5 lakh per annum. Kindly suggest me how I should plan my investment to achieve the goal. Is it possible or I need to make some changes, like increase investment etc.- Vipin   A:  I believe that with Rs 5 lakh per annum of investments, achieving Rs 5 crore of amount in 20 years should not be a problem. You need to generate round 13-14% of annualized return which for now doesn't look that difficult in such a long period. However for such a long period you need regular monitoring, so you can weed out the non performers timely from your portfolio. Two things you need to keep in mind, one is that the expected returns are from pure equity portfolio, which also has a tendency to make it super volatile. If volatility bothers you then you should have better allocated portfolio in debt and equity as per your risk profile, and in that case you may need to increase your investment amount too. Secondly, if you have a goal mapped with these savings, in other words if Rs 5 crore is the goal amount derived out of some mathematics, then you should be sure that the calculation was reasonably done and better to come out of equity allocation when you are near to your target date. In such a structure also you may need to increase your investment amount.    Q: I am looking for some safe sip ELSS where I can invest 2500-3500 per month for next 25 years and expect a good return. Any funds suggested will be greatly appreciated - Sridhar   A:  One thing you need to understand that you cannot ask for a safe investment when looking for equity product. ELSS is pure equity instrument so volatility is an inherent feature. And It has been seen many times that when volatility strikes all long term investors start creating short term needs to reason their equity withdrawals. Equity is no doubt a long term growth generating investment asset class, but it should be invested with caution and pure structure. For now Franklin tax shield, Axis long term equity are good ELSS funds to be considered.  

