URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/invest-in-debt-safely-with-liquid-funds/articleshow/50490810.cms

Title : Invest in debt safely with liquid funds - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : savings,liquid funds,investments,interest rate,credit

Date :  Jan 08, 2016, 04.00 AM IST

Document ID : 857

Content:
  ET explains this type of mutual fund instrument:    1. What are liquid funds?    Liquid funds are open ended schemes that invest in debt and money market instruments with maximum maturity of up to 91 days only. Hence, the average maturity of a liquid fund is equal to or less than 91 days. This strategy helps in mitigating risk arising out of interest rate volatility, provide high liquidity to portfolio and generate stable income.    2. Are there risks in investing in them?    Liquid funds are categorised as low risk products from liquidity and interest rate risk perspective. This is because they hold very short term instruments where the chances of interest rate fluctuations are less. Returns on these schemes fluctuate much less compared to other debt funds. The probability of the credit risk i.e. the risk of default is also low due to short maturity of investment portfolio. The credit risk is further mitigated by investments based on evaluation of credit fundamentals such as outlook on the sector, parentage, quality of management and credit ratings.    3. What is the difference between liquid and other debt funds?    Liquid funds are short term investment products ideal for parking surplus money pending deployment or for meeting contingencies. Since liquid funds invest with short duration maturity, volatility in such funds is low. Other debt funds like gilt funds, income funds invest in a range of debt and money market instruments with restrictions on maturity as speicified in their scheme information documents.    4. What are the benefits of investing in a liquid fund?    There is a potential to earn higher income by parking funds in a liquid fund vis a vis a savings bank account or current account. With a small amount of Rs 5,000 investors can access wholesale debt/money markets. These funds offer you the flexibility of investment options like growth and dividend payout with weekly or monthly frequencies. You can also transfer this money, to equity funds as and when you feel the valuations are right.    5. How are earnings from liquid funds taxed?    If held for less than 3 years, capital gains from liquid funds would now be added to investor's income and taxed at his marginal rate of tax. If held for more than three years, you will have to pay long term capital gains tax at 20% with indexation.  

