URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/3-sectors-to-invest-in-and-3-sectors-to-avoid-vaibhav-sanghvi-ambit-investment-advisors/articleshow/53734806.cms

Title : 3 sectors to invest in and 3 sectors to avoid: Vaibhav Sanghvi, Ambit Investment Advisors - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wockhardt,US,technology,Tata Steel,Sun Pharma,stocks,So,portfolio,place,open,markets,market share,Market,Lupin,international business,Infosys,Inflation,India,in,id,Hindalco,et now,ET,environment,Eicher Motors,commodities,Cipla,Business,Brexit

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 10.34 AM IST

Document ID : 634

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Vaibhav Sanghvi, Ambit Investment Advisors, says likes domestic oriented industries from consumer discretionary to consumer staples, farm equipment, agro chemical and will avoid anything to do with global angle like metals and commodities and IT. Edited excerpts        ET Now: We are on the subject of how the IT companies reacted to Infosys losing that RBS contract. What is the house call on IT currently as a sector and within that space, are there any outliers that may defy a trend either on the downside or on the upside?         Vaibhav Sanghvi:    We have consistently said that IT is starting to get more commoditised and any of those companies which differentiates in terms of the business offering or value add business model are the companies we might look at. However, looking at the current situation with headwinds of Brexit and global pressures, I think at least in the short to medium term we might see the whole sector not performing. Having said that, in that panic or in that period of underperformance, if we are able to see some of the businesses transition themselves to much value added businesses or change the business model, than those are the companies we might want to look at going forward.        ET Now: What is your view on technology space? Do you think that there is a bit of an overhang? We are not getting into specifics stocks but broadly do you think this true defensive bet in the market also has a cloud of concern with the slowdown in the international business and whole outsourcing model going through some sort of modifications?         Vaibhav Sanghvi    : Indeed. As I said, they have to transition themselves to a much better value added business and commoditise the business in terms of per man hour or per hour of certain amount of dollars. There is no kicker in terms of where the substantial growth will come from going forward.     So, we are in a situation where the business models are evolving. One of the largest companies in the sector has seen some amount of churning happening in terms of their strategy going into different areas such as artificial intelligence and the likes of it. So those are the important lookouts or those are the important pointers. One need to keep a close watch on it. Id they start to fire in or we see some amount of progress into those kind of newer areas of businesses, I think we would be encouraged by that. Having said that, if traditional businesses are commoditised, that will get a commoditised PE also.         ET Now: Speaking of pharma, yesterday was a big day for pharma names. Cipla, post the commentary went up substantially, Divi's Lab touched all time highs after the delivery as well. While we are seeing chinks in a Lupin, Wockhardt has perennially been under a cloud. There are some companies out there whose commentary for the rest of the year is so bullish that the market is going out and buying them. Even if they open with a bit of a gap, what are your favourites within the pharma space if you have them?         Vaibhav Sanghvi:    We think basically pharma is one of those sectors which on a valuation perspective on a overall basis look pretty okay as compared to the market valuations currently. In terms of the historical trend, where pharma has traded in terms of relative to the index. What we are now also seeing because of the earlier pressures of FDAs and all the regulatory hassles over the whole sector we have seen some amount of significant PED rating which has happened in last 6 to 12 months.     Having said that, this time around, these issues around USFDA are debts or thereabouts in terms of getting resolved. At the same time, emerging markets exposure to companies are starting to get stabilised . What we have to see going forward in a couple of quarters, is that the US business getting stabilised. Once that get stabilised, pharma is a great sector to make money for at least next two to three years. We are bullish on this sector and any companies which have a broader pipeline and especially the front line companies in the pharma sector is something which will definitely have a look once these USFDA issues gets resolved, which we think will get resolved pretty soon.        ET Now: In your current preferred stock list what do you currently own? What are you telling your clients they should buy in a discretionary side. In a non-discretionary side. how are you laying your bets?         Vaibhav Sanghvi:    We are a long short fund.We are pretty much bullish on Sun Pharma and we are going with the leaders of this sector rather than at present going into the midcap side. So we continue to hold that as we are bullish on that and we will be adding different names on to the portfolio at the right opportune time at the right valuations.        ET Now: What about the metals rally that we are seeing right now? Hindalco, Tata Steel have had a decent run that is getting reflected in the overall uptick in inflation too and in commodities bouncing back. What is your own sense of this whether this is structural or cyclical?         Vaibhav Sanghvi:    I think it is pure cyclical in the sense that what happens on the global side in terms of the metal prices performance is what we see in terms of the stock price performance globally, not only in India. So what we are seeing is that the base metal prices have been fairly stable and probably on the higher side or the positive side at least for about 8 to 10 months right from November, December of 2015 . That stability is seen across companies across performances of base metals and on top of it, there is regulatory impact like an MIP or various other anti-dumping duties. So all in all they are aiding the shorter term performance of those kind of companies. But if you see in terms of the longer term bet in terms of the business which you would want to own, I do not think one wants to own a business which is more of a regulatory driven business rather than by itself on its own merits. We are not very comfortable with the global growth prospects in terms of economic growth and thus we feel that at some point in time, we will see some amount of fatigue getting into the base metal prices. So you can rent it but in terms of owning I will rather avoid.         ET Now: I want to go back and talk about the way Eicher Motors has moved time and again. Market men have written an obituary for Eicher, some have called it expensive, others are calling it sour grapes but irrespective of bull market, bear market, sideways market Eicher Motors is just on a different tangent?         Vaibhav Sanghvi        :    Yes, indeed. That is one company which has evolved amazingly well. What they have done in terms of the performance of their own products creating the niche among for its own self and creating a unique market in terms of younger audience. I think the company has developed some kind of cult base around their whole thesis. So yes, on a longer term perspective, the company will continue to do well but there is always a question, at what valuation would you want to enter? So, that is something one has to figure out and in terms of business, they are going phenomenally well. It is just how much value do you attribute? That is a big question.        ET Now: A long-term investor would say airline is a difficult industry but if I look at the current environment, it is favourable for the aviation sector. It is the only big sector which is growing at double digit, it is the only big sector where there is no competition and the market share now only lies with two carriers?          Vaibhav Sanghvi    : The longer term prospects of an airline sector in terms of the revenue growth is pretty much well in place now. Revenue growth consists of two parts is one in terms of the volume growth and the other is a pricing. Volume growth we have been consistently seeing that more and more passengers are coming on board of the airlines, however, in terms of the pricing we are seeing some amount of pressures on the pricing because of the increase in competition so to an extent that is getting nullified in terms of the higher passenger growth. At the same time the most important variable on the cost side of the airline is how to predict oil, it is extremely difficult to actually forecast oil for one year, two years, or three years probably so that is why in terms of the modelling in terms of having a estimates and a forecast of airline company it is extremely difficult how you take it forward and what is the value you would want to give given that one of the huge elements of that cost is extremely vulnerable or extremely volatile so that is where my problem or our problem lies is basically yes again it is those kind of sectors where renting is better than probably owning because in terms of the ownership you have to keep in mind all those factors which you have absolutely no control or predictability actually on.         ET Now: If you get dollops of money to invest afresh into the market at the current valuations within the next three days, what would your favoured space be?          Vaibhav Sanghvi    : That is a difficult question but any which way the sectors which we like have to do with domestic growth and domestic oriented industries. In domestic oriented industries, it drives from consumer discretionary to consumer staples, farm equipment, agro chemicals, and as I said domestic manufacturing also to an extent. We will definitely avoid anything to do with global angle like metals and commodities and IT.  

