URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/Check-out-Linksys-N600-for-good-WiFi-coverage/articleshow/53787703.cms

Title : Check out Linksys N600 for good WiFi coverage - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : WiFi coverage,Tubi TV,Sunday ET,Linksys N600,Drop It

Date : Aug 21, 2016, 10.37 AM IST

Document ID : 973

Content:
 Linksys N600 Pro Wi-Fi Range Extender, RE4100W   Spotty WiFi coverage? It could be the quality of the router, incorrect placement, too many walls or other electronic devices near the router that are causing interference.     An easy way out is a WiFi Range extender. Linksys N600 is a compact WiFi range extender that plugs into a wall outlet.     There are no ugly antennas or cables to worry about - once plugged in, the only visible thing is the green indication light on the front. Setting up the N600 is a two minute process.     Once it is powered on, connect to the 'Linksys Extender Setup' WiFi network and type http://192.168.1.1 in a web browser window to start the setup wizard. The wizard will take you through the steps needed to pair your existing WiFi network — you only need to know the name and password of your WiFi network.     Where you place this extender can change how it behaves. Linksys spot finder technology can detect where you should place your the extender — if you want to run spot finder, then run the configuration setup on a handheld device instead of a computer.     The spot finder procedure takes more time but it will help find the best spot for maximum coverage. This range extender is for users who want to do more than just increase the signal coverage of their WiFi network.     It has a Ethernet port using which you can connect any wired device if required — great if you want to use a wired IP camera for security or for older TVs that have Ethernet but don't have WiFi.     Also, there is a 3.5mm aux audio jack to connect with speakers on the side — you can stream music over the WiFi network to the speakers form a PC or smartphone (works with selected media players only).     It is available for Rs 4,799 on ecommerce websites which is still higher than WiFi extender option from Netgear, D-link or Tp-link, but it's the price you have to pay for the dual band support and Ethernet plus audio streaming feature.        Drop It        Game for iOS        Get it for: Free        Drop It is a game that obviously takes inspiration from Tetris: the classic tile-matching puzzle game, where you need to fit different pieces into each other.      (Trivia: Tetris, inspired by the Greek numeral prefix tetra, was called so because each piece had four segments).      Developer Vincent Caruso is taking advantage of the high resolution colour screens on our portable devices — the focus is now on colour.      When the game starts, the screen is divided into halves and you're presented with a pair of cubes. You can rotate them around and drop them down.      You need to place three or more cubes of the same colour together to earn points.      If you miss, the cubes keep piling up and you'll eventually reach the mid-screen point at which time the game is over.      After you play and finish a full game, you'll see a video ad (which can be skipped after a few seconds).      It's a clever take on Tetris and like the original, it forces you to think ahead to earn a higher score (the next colour cubes are always displayed on top). It's fun, simple and addictive.                 Tubi TV        App for for iOS, Android & others        Get it for: Free       There's a constant tussle between copyright owners and those who don't want to pay for content.     Or you could be part of the group that laments lack of access to independent cinema and TV. Both these groups can try out Tubi TV — a streaming platform for free, global content.     There are no fees, no ads, no subscription charges and no tricks involved. Simply download the app on your device, sign up for an account with your email ID and start streaming content.     In India, the app does warn you that all of the content is not available (it's geo-restricted — the full library is available in the US only).     That being said, you won't find a shortage of content and you can choose to browse via one of the many categories (film festival favourites, foreign favourites, comedy, documentaries, kids & family and so on).     Note that free doesn't necessarily equal bad. You'll find several award winning films here. Apart from iOS and Android, you can check out Tubi TV from any web browser and it's also available for Apple TV, Roku and select Samsung Smart TVs.  

