URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/policy/panel-suggests-corporate-bond-index-easier-norms-for-fpis/articleshow/53756985.cms

Title : Panel suggests corporate bond index, easier norms for FPIs - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Working Group,U K Sinha,sub,Sensex,sebi,reserve bank finance ministry,regulations,Raghuram Rajan,R,portfolio,nifty,New Delhi,new,markets,Market,insurance,India,in,H R Khan,fsdc sub committee the group,Finance Ministry,finance,FEMA,Credit Rating,bonds

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 06.20 PM IST

Document ID : 480

Content:
 NEW DELHI: With an aim to develop corporate bond market in India, an expert panel today suggested easing of norms for foreign investors, a corporate bond index on lines of Sensex or Nifty, and making it mandatory for large corporates to tap this market for funds beyond a threshold.     The panel, comprising of nominees from Reserve Bank, Finance Ministry, markets watchdog Sebi as also insurance and pension regulators IRDAI and PFRDA, also wants tightening of norms for credit rating agencies by mandating them to strictly adhere to timely public disclosure of defaults.     The 'Report of the Working Group on Development of Corporate Bond Market in India' has been submitted to RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan in his capacity as Chairman of the FSDC (Financial Stability and Development Council) Sub-Committee, which comprises of members from various regulators and had had set up the group.     The report was released today by Sebi, whose Chairman U K Sinha is a member of the FSDC Sub Committee.     The Group was constituted in September 2015 under chairmanship of the then RBI Deputy Governor H R Khan and has now submitted its report after taking into account various structural issues impinging on the development of a deep corporate bond market in India.     Among its various suggestions, the panel has said, "Large corporates with borrowings from the banking system above a cut-off level may be required to tap the market for a portion of their working capital and term loan needs. Necessary guidelines may be issued by RBI taking into account market conditions by September 2016."     It also wants necessary amendments in FEMA regulations to allow investment by FPIs in unlisted debt securities and pass through securities issued by securitizations.     In a rare case of suggesting specific timelines for its various suggestions, the Working Group wants necessary notification with regard to allowing FPI (Foreign Portfolio Investor) investments in these segments by August-end 2016.     It also wants amendments in both FEMA notification and Sebi guidelines to facilitate direct trading in corporate bonds by FPIs in the OTC segment and on an electronic platform of a recognized stock exchange, subject to certain safeguards, without involving brokers.     With regard to credit rating agencies, the report wants them to publish the credit rating transition matrix more frequently. Besides, the rating agencies have been asked to take up membership of credit information companies to access relevant credit information.     Necessary action would be required to be taken by Sebi in this regard.     Besides, banks may be encouraged to submit loan overdue information to CICs on a weekly basis to start with.     "RBI may consider whether CRAs may be allowed access to Central Repository of Information on Large Credits database based on legal feasibility and other relevant factors," it said.  

