URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/you-may-have-e-filed-your-tax-return-but-have-you-verified-it/articleshow/53629210.cms

Title : You may have e-filed your tax return but have you verified it? - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Verify tax return,Rejection of tax return,filing tax return,e-verify tax return,e-filing

Date : Aug 10, 2016, 06.59 PM IST

Document ID : 348

Content:
  Heaved a sigh of relief because you managed to e-file your personal income tax return by the extended deadline of August 5, 2016? But don't relax just yet. Your e-filed return is not valid (except digitally signed returns) till you verify it.     Verification of your e-filed return is in fact a crucial step without which your entire effort will be wasted because an un-verified e-return is not treated as a valid return. This means that if you do not verify your e-filed return (filed without digital signature) within the specified deadline you would have to file your return again. "The tax return form that is e- filed has the verification section itself but for the return to be considered valid a physical copy of the ITR-V needs to be sent by post to Central Processing Centre in Bangalore within 120 days from the date of filing the tax return," says Sonu Iyer, partner & national leader - People Advisory Services, EY.     Sachin Vasudeva, senior partner and practising chartered accountant, S.C. Vasudeva & Co, explains: "Centralised Processing of Returns Scheme requires that where the return is not digitally signed, the ITR V should be verified. The scheme further provides that where the ITR V furnished is rejected on account of it being illegible, mutilated, bad quality or not as per specifications it shall be deemed that the return in respect of which the ITR V has been filed was never furnished and it shall be incumbent upon the person to file the return electronically once again followed by submission of the ITR V.     Though the scheme does not cover a case of non-filing of the ITR V explicitly but one would have to take a cue from the aforesaid paragraph and conclude that where a person does not file the verification in ITR-V it shall be deemed that his/her return was never filed, Vasudeva adds.     There are many ways of verifying the tax return you have e-filed. (Click here to Read about the ways to e-verify your return) The return can be verified electronically i.e. you can e-verify your return or verify it by physically sending the ITR-V to CPC, Bengaluru (the full address is given at the bottom of the ITR-V). Your ITR-V is the acknowledgement of the tax return you e-file and is automatically generated when you successfully upload your return on the e-filing website.     You can download the ITR-V from your account on the income tax e-filing website. You should also receive it as an attachment in an email from the IT department after you upload your return. Check that the figures reflected in the ITR-V are correct as per the return you filed and then sign it and send it via ordinary or speed post to the address mentioned at the bottom of the ITR-V. You should get an email acknowledging receipt of this ITR-V from the IT department once this ITR-V is received by them.     As an alternative to the above process, there are many ways of e-verifying your return: via Aadhar, net banking, bank account etc.  Read more about how to e-verify  .     Those who have filed returns physically (as opposed to returns which are e-filed) need not worry. This is because "A return which is physically filed (hard copy with the tax office) need not be verified separately as the tax payer has to sign the return before filing the same", explains Iyer. However, as e-filing is the most common method used nowadays, tax payers need to be aware of the necessity of verifying the e-return.   

