URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/personal-finance-news/auto-dealers-will-have-to-pay-the-green-cess-on-diesel-suvs-registration-in-ncr/articleshow/53770466.cms

Title : Auto dealers will have to pay the green cess on diesel SUVs' registration in NCR - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Uttar Pradesh,Union Bank of India,registration,open,New Delhi,new,in,Harish Salve,EPC,categories,car

Date : Aug 19, 2016, 03.45 PM IST

Document ID : 336

Content:


  NEW DELHI: Acting on the Supreme Court recent order of charging green cess from manufacturers\dealers of big dieselSUVs and high-end vehicles with an engine capacity of 2000 cc and above in Delhi-NCR, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday spelt out the modalities of collecting the Environment Protection Charge (EPC).
  

  Dealers selling such vehicles will have to deposit 1% ex-showroom price as EPC in any branch of the Union Bank of India (UBI) in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR). Registration of the vehicles will be done only after presenting receipt of the payment to transport authorities.
  

  The country's central pollution watchdog has opened a separate account (a\c name: CPCB-EPC) for this purpose in this public sector bank, appealing the dealers to deposit the green cess in the account no.- 532702010008813.
  

  Dealers can deposit the green cess either through demand draft or cash specifying Vehicle VIN (Vehicle Identification Number). The VIN will help the pollution watchdog to keep a track on each and every diesel vehicle with engine capacity of 2000 cc and above being sold in the Capital and the NCR.
  

  The NCR, as notified, covers the territorial jurisdictions of National Capital Territory of Delhi and its neighbouring districts inHaryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
  

  "The collected amount will be used to strengthen public transport and adopt other measures to contain air pollution", said an official of the environment ministry.
  

  He said the spending mechanism would be worked out in consultations with the governments in Delhi and neighbouring states.
  

  Lifting its eight-month-long ban on sale of such diesel cars and SUVs in Delhi-NCR, the apex court had in its order on August 12 put a condition of 1% EPC for registration of such high-end vehicles.
  

  "No diesel car with engine capacity of 2000 cc or more will be registered by transport authorities in Delhi and the National Capital Region without the manufacturer/dealer/purchaser presenting receipt of depositing 1% of ex-showroom cost of the vehicle in the account opened by the CPCB," the court had said.
  

  Though the amicus curiae Harish Salve had said 1% was too meagre and insisted that the court keep this charge open to variation, the SC said it would decide at a later stage whether the EPC at 1% of ex-showroom cost need to be enhanced and also whether all categories of diesel cars should be brought within the ambit of EPC.
  

  The apex court had imposed the ban on big diesel cars through its December 16, 2015 order and had kept it in force till March 31. The court had later on March 31 continued the ban until it had worked out the quantum of the green cess.
  


