URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/cement-industrial-manufacturing-to-lead-recovery-lalit-nambiar-uti-mutual-fund/articleshow/53754922.cms

Title : Cement, industrial manufacturing to lead recovery: Lalit Nambiar, UTI Mutual Fund - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : yield,world,US,tv,stocks,So,positioning,place,people,News,mutual fund,markets,Market,liquidity,Lalit Nambiar,Inflation,India,in,europe,et now,ET,economy,earnings,Dish TV,debate,bonds

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 03.31 PM IST

Document ID : 622

Content:
 In a chat with ET Now, Lalit Nambiar, Senior Vice President & Fund Manager - Equity, UTI Mutual Fund, says the government is putting in place measures to ensure that is recovery in some parts of infrastructure. Edited excerpts        ET Now: As of now it is all looking nice and cosy is this as good as it gets or do you think now it is time to really exercise some caution?         Lalit Nambiar:    If you are looking at the stock specific story, may be one or two years out and stocks which are domestic focused bottom up. You have reasonably good opportunities. So, I am not worried about that. I think the other aspect which probably has people worried is liquidity. If you look at domestic interest rates especially bond yields and global trends towards emerging markets, it is quite clear that the data coming out of the US seems to indicate there is not likely to be a rate hike anytime soon and that has possibly emboldened people to move to the emerging markets whether it is in bonds or into equities.     So that is probably keeping people worried because it means that money is rushing after stocks without so much thought about immediate earnings which if you are willing to wait is a fair thing because there could be a story in India emerging simply because we are looking at an economic revival. However, the pace of that economic revival may keep people a little bit sceptical and I think probably six to eight months or one year down the line, we should see some amount of a pickup in earnings which should keep markets in good spirits.        ET Now: How much of the current market action is the function of simple global cues and global connection? We may feel special about what we are in terms of global positioning but frankly other emerging markets have also done rather well. A market like Russia and Brazil have done reasonably well in 2016. US markets are at an all time high. I am keeping Europe and Japan out of the equation because those economies are a genuine mess but in general if I look at big markets and emerging markets is the world looking like a charged up place?         Lalit Nambiar:    There is definitely a very strong undercurrent which is coming from liquidity, which is coming from negative yields in some parts of the world on bonds and the surge for yield. People are willing to take risks in equity and that is obviously reflecting even in India. So, I do not think it is purely an India story like you put it. It is largely a part of the fact that money is searching all around the globe for yield and is willing to take more risks simply because the alternatives are not so great.        ET Now: I want to talk a little bit about what the outlook is when it comes to the media space as a whole. Do you have a call given the fact that earnings have been trickling in, seeing some sort of an improvement this time around. What is the outlook as to which is the space within media that is likely to benefit? Would it be some of the multiplex stocks? Would print or on account of digitisation some of the players like a Dish TV likely to stand out?         Lalit Nambiar:    If you look at it thematically, without getting into stocks, one thing is clear that the amount of spend growth which you saw in FMCG especially in the TV space is probably going to decelerate because there is enough money for companies in FMCG to spend in terms of rural growth. So if they want to spend on below the line, they probably will see a slower growth in ad spends. That is one thing I would take away in that space. The rest of it, I do not think there is an extremely exciting opportunity clearly in terms of any trend which we can talk about which will impact specific parts of that sector. If you are looking at subscription revenues or if you are looking at multiplexes, I do not think there is one single factor which you can point to in and say this is going to be a big driver because even if there is increased income in the hands of rural consumers and increased confidence because of the rains, I do not see that playing directly into some of these names. So I do not think there is any clear trend there which you can play but rather a top down.        ET Now: What is the outlook in terms of the kind of news flow that we have seen in the metal space. It is such a cyclical sector. Today of course, was quite a bit of jerk but it is tends to be a tad stock specific given all the global events that take place and how contingent the metal sector is on it. Do you think there would be a little bit of a cautious stance when it comes to this sector especially on account of the news that MIP extension is unlikely to continue beyond October?         Lalit Nambiar:    I think, partly it has been propped up by protectionist measures at least in India and global trends at least do not indicate that there is a huge economic recovery anywhere else in the world. So one would tend to be more cautious than not.        ET Now: Based on number, it is very difficult to make a case that earnings are strong. We can talk about individual stocks and that is always a point of debate but the aggregate picture in my mind is not changing. If that is the case, Nifty is not going to change. So do you think in the short term that is in three to six months markets are looking capped in terms of upside?         Lalit Nambiar:    Yes, we also think that the earnings are going to be back ended. Furthermore, the latest quarter is not really comparable because a lot of numbers in the non-financial space are not comparable.     So I do not know what you can infer from this particular result. What one must look at probably is the top line and if one see top line volume growth happening across sectors or at least in a few sectors and accelerating, that would be a clear indication of what could happen to earnings one year down the line but otherwise the small changes are not really indicative of a bigger trend or a change in trend in anyway. But if you are seeing signs in certain accelerators, let us say electricity or diesel consumption, those kind of indicators give you a broad idea of where the economy is headed and you are hoping that sort of translates into volume growth for companies in different sectors and then looking at a top down pick for sectors. As of now, like you mentioned earlier it seems to be more bottom up and specific to a company.        ET Now: Finally let us talk about cement and industrial manufacturing. UTI FM seems to be bullish here. Just give us a broad sense as to why these sectors appeal?         Lalit Nambiar    : Like we mentioned earlier, we are looking at an economic recovery. All the macroeconomic factors in terms of inflation, interest rate, credit cycle are in place very much like they were in probably 1992, 1994 or 2003, 2005 and we believe that the government is putting in place measures to ensure that is recovery in some parts of infrastructure. There is enough spending on investment and I think it is a question of time when some of these will start to show and the lead sectors in these cases are basically sectors like cement and industrial manufacturing and that is the reason we are bullish on those sectors  

