URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/how-indian-companies-are-benefiting-from-pokemon-go/articleshow/53611876.cms

Title : How Indian companies are benefiting from Pokemon Go - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Rohit Dadwal,Pokemon Go,Niantic,Mobile Marketing Association,Jugnoo,fiona solitaires,asia-pacific,Abhay Doshi

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 11.20 AM IST

Document ID : 671

Content:
  CHENNAI: An app that began as an April Fool's joke has become a worldwide phenomenon, taking gamers out of their homes and onto streets as they compete to capture and battle Pokemon characters from their smartphones.     It's been a month since Niantic developed its fiercely popular location-based augmented reality (AR) game Pokemon GO and, while several countries including India and China are yet to access the official version, avid gamers in India have accessed the packaged file and are intensely hooked on to it. Riding on this opportunity are several Indian companies like Fiona Solitaires and auto aggregator Jugnoo.     Jugnoo has integrated the game along with its app so that users can play while seated in an auto. "Pokemon GO is tren ding across the world and the nexus that we identified between our brand and the game is that both have to do with travelling or be on the move. Our latest update will show all the Pokestops and Gyms in the city , which will help users plan their Jugnoo ride while playing Pokemon GO," said Jugnoo founder and CEO Samar Singla.     Marketers and industry experts perceive the game to be a great opportunity for brands because it brings the virtual and real world together. Mobile Marketing Association MD (Asia-Pacific) Rohit Dadwal sees multiple sectors businesses benefiting from the rage. Brick and mortar stores, QSR chains and hospitality sectors might be the first to reap benefits. Given that the game involves walking, Dadwal sees health apps also benefiting from integrating with the game.     Mumbai-headquartered Fiona Solitaires is targeting serious Pokemon GO players -those who are in Level 10 and above who will get a 20% discount along with a Poke Rakhi.The jeweller, typically selling jewellery in the range of Rs 30,000Rs 2 lakh, has introduced items costing Rs 3,00010,000 to suit the budget and needs of a young audience. "We have witnessed 200% increase in footfall after we announced the offer last week. We are waiting to tie up with the game officially as soon as it launches in India," said Parag Aggarwal, cofounder, Fiona Solitaires.     InMobi VP and global head of marketing Arun Pattabhiraman said, "Due to the hyperlocal nature of the game, stores can reward users who capture Pokemons in-store or travel a certain distance to reach the store."     Flytxt senior VP (product and marketing) Abhay Doshi said a lot is to be gained by merely using the Pokemon euphoria.  

