URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/10-startups-in-fray-for-bits-pilanis-startup-challenge-conquest/articleshow/53739214.cms

Title : 10 startups in fray for BITS Pilani's Startup Challenge, Conquest - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Watsan Envirotech,Virtual reality,social enterprises,Project Mudra,MaaxMarket,JoGo App,internet of things,International Startup Challenge,Indusbuzz,Hound Electric,Healthcare,Exotel,Ethnus Technologies,Ekam Eco Solutions,conquest,Comfort Products,CitrusPay,Buddy4Study,BITS Pilani,Accel Partners

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.53 PM IST

Document ID : 732

Content:
 BITS Pilani's International Startup Challenge, Conquest, will hold its grand finale on August 28 where 10 startups will battle it out to obtain incubation and funding opportunities.     This year, Conquest, in association with Accel Partners, Exotel and CitrusPay, witnessed a participation of more than 1200 startups from varied sectors, ranging from Healthcare and Social Enterprises to Internet of Things and even Virtual Reality.     According to a statement, these applications were scrutinized based on 36 extensive parameters to shortlist the top 50 startups for personalized mentoring sessions held in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.     The ten selected the finalists of Conquest 2016 are:    Comfort Products:  Comfort Products is an innovation driven startup specializing in manufacturing of home appliances. The product mix includes SwiftChill, an innovative beverage chiller, that chills beverages instantly wherever you go.    Buddy4Study:  Buddy4Study helps individuals and organizations to set up their own scholarship programs as social, CSR initiative in a transparent and effective manner.    MaaxMarket:  MaaxMarket is an all-in-one marketing platform designed for small businesses to help them scale and grow with the help of artificial intelligence.    Project Mudra:  Project Mudra delivers a technology-based intervention to provide Braille literacy and K-12 lessons to the 90% of blind people left out of the Braille education pipeline.    Hound Electric:  Hound Electric builds zero emission, high performance electric motorcycles with aim to change the way we commute and look at the automotive sector as a whole.    Watsan Envirotech:  Watsan Envirotech's sole purpose is to provide water and sanitary solutions to the rural population by manufacturing and distributing low-cost, yet effective electricity-free water filters to urban slums and rural families who cannot afford other expensive options.    Ekam Eco Solutions:  Ekam Eco Solutions works in the domains of Sustainable Sanitation, Value-added Bamboo Products and Sustainable Livelihoods. Their objective is to design, develop and disseminate safe and sustainable sanitation solutions so that the abundance of pure water is restored.    Indusbuzz Technologies:  Indusbuzz is India's first SAAS based "Just In Time" procurement platform for the global construction industry, connecting every stakeholder with Business Intelligence.    Ethnus Technologies:  Ethnus Technologies is a platform for on demand simulated interviews for job seekers from experts. Ethnus makes every effort to plug the gap in aptitude, exposure and interpersonal abilities of students and makes them industry ready.    JoGo:  JoGo App provides easy access to 100,000 curated health, fitness products and 1000 services across 20 categories, thus solving the lack of access/time issue. Further the social features make it fun for all.     The grand finale would also cover panel discussions and keynotes from industry stalwarts like Sanjay Nath (managing partner, Blume Ventures), Dev Khare (MD, Lightspeed Partners), Suchi Mukherjee (CEO, Limeroad) and many more.     DCB Bank is the title sponsor for Conquest and registrations for attending the Grand Finale are now open at www.conquest.org.in.  

