URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/cisco-layoff-likely-to-impact-india-rd/articleshow/53752559.cms

Title : Cisco layoff likely to impact India R&D - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : R&D Centre,Globalization Centre East -Cisco,Cisco

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 12.16 PM IST

Document ID : 110

Content:
  BENGALURU: Cisco Systems is laying off about 14,000 employees, technology news site CRN reported on Tuesday , citing sources close to the company . That's nearly 20 per cent of the networking major's global workforce, the single largest layoff in its 32-year history.     The company said it does not comment on rumour or speculation. Some analysts say the number may not be that high. But whatever be the final number, the company's India operations, particularly the R&D; establishment, is expected to be significantly impacted, given that it's one of Cisco's largest global setups.     The India R&D; centre, with 7,000 engineers, is the biggest outside Cisco's San Jose facility , which has about 12,500 engineers. Overall, India accounts for 11,000, or 15 per cent, of the total global employee strength of 73,000.     The $49-billion company is moving from a hardware to a subscription software-based model, and so has to refresh its engineering talent base. India will inevitably be part of this change, said several analysts, most of who requested that their names not be disclosed.    Also Read:  Cisco Systems to lay off about 14,000 employees, says report     "The DNA is still of physical routers and switches. So it will have to let go of some of those people and bring in fresh talent with expertise in cloud and subscription software," an industry source said.     Vishal Tripathi, research director in Gartner, noted that companies like Cisco are increasingly focusing on a software-defined business and making big strides in the cloud ecosystem. "Though hardware is an integral part of the business, Cisco hopes to have an edge in the software space," he said.        The India R&D; centre, founded in 2007 and called the Globalization Centre East -Cisco even calls it its second global headquarters -has done some successful developments and global implementations under its Smart+Connected Communities initiative under which it transforms physical communities into connected communities with the objective of realizing sustainable economic growth and enhanced quality of life.     But some of its work for India, related to remote education and healthcare, are yet to scale.     "Already some senior people have left. Under Chuck Robbins (who took over as CEO from John Chambers mid last year), there's been a greater focus on profitability than on growth. So there are fewer new projects, new initiatives, and it becomes monotonous for senior leaders," a source said.  

