URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/real-or-science-fiction-some-startups-are-creating-things-that-seem-like-a-hollywood-sci-fi-film/articleshow/53502914.cms

Title : Real or science fiction? Some startups are creating things that seem like a Hollywood sci-fi film - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : TVF Pitchers,titan aerospace,Magic Leap,ARCA Space,Affectiva

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 05.16 AM IST

Document ID : 310

Content:
 Soylent, 2013  When I first heard about the $100 million startup Soylent, "a food technology, producing convenient, complete foods designed to provide maximum nutrition with minimal effort", immediately I thought about the 1973 Charlton Heston film Soylent Green. It's a science fiction thriller in which poor and starving people are fed a green wafer called Soylent Green. (Spoiler Alert!) At the movie's end we're told "Soylent Green is people!" The fictitious company Soylent Corporation basically processes human corpses into food. That's an unfortunate connection for a company that could potentially replace a juicy steak at lunch with a beige concoction that's far healthier for you. In 2014, New Yorker did a piece on Soylent called 'The End Of Food'.    Titan Aerospace, 2012  Google beat Facebook to acquire this startup in 2014. The latter however, acquired Titan Aerospace's competitor Ascenta. All's fair in this drone battle. Both are in the business of building high-flying drones that cruise at the edge of the earth's atmosphere to envelope the globe with cheaper, better, internet connectivity. A system of solar-powered 5G internet drones hovering at 65,000 feet. Google and Titan Aerospace are working on the stealth Project SkyBender at Spaceport America in an isolated part of New Mexico. SkyBender is part of the elite, ultra-secretive Google Access team.    Magic Leap, 2010  The Florida-based startup is not only the hottest in the world but is also classed as the "most secretive startup in the world". The company's "wizards" are working to make its mind-boggling mixed-reality (MR) tech (virtual plus augmented and whatever else its genius founder Rony Abovitz can conjure up) very real. In February 2016, the company announced a massive, $793 million in new funding, led by Alibaba Group. That could be the largest C round in financing history. Continued investments came from early investors Google Inc. and Qualcomm Incorporated. The new investors' list includes Warner Bros. Magic Leap's other existing investors are KKR, Vulcan Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Andreessen Horowitz, among others. Facebook, Samsung, Sony, Microsoft, Amazon and Google, and even Apple, have small armies working on competing AR technologies. However, while others have chosen to release product even as they engineer them, Magic Leap's still in stealth mode. Thus making the wait for the next frontier in how we view and interact with the world almost unbearable.    ARCA Space, 1999  Established as a non-governmental organisation in Romania by Dumitru Popescu, Arca's business is space exploration. Popescu's LinkedIn profile states: "ARCA Space wants to become a model of aerospace industry cost reduction, being the only way to open mankind's road to the outer space." What the company is also working on is a genuine, powerful hoverboard, the Arca-Board. It's clunky but it's the real deal. Bigger than a skateboard, 272 horsepower and the rider can use the phone to control and navigate. Feel like the Silver Surfer for just $14,900. The charger is an extra $4,500.    Affectiva, 2009  Earlier this year, the startup developing emotion recognition and measurement technology that can read people's moods (even minds, maybe) through facial and physiological cues, raised $14 million in a Series D round. Affectiva's emotional intelligence systems can also measure a person's heart rate through computer vision ie without the use of additional devices attached to the body. Some early adopters of emotion AI include videogame makers and large corporations like Unilever and Mars. Now, marketers and advertising agencies conducting focus groups can assess consumers' reactions without asking them questions like "how do you feel" when watching an ad.     

