URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/spend/how-to-use-technology-to-manage-your-home-better-improve-lifestyle/articleshow/53570185.cms

Title : How to use technology to manage your home better, improve lifestyle - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : technology,smart,lifestyle,Home,ET Wealth

Date : Aug 08, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 376

Content:
  Technology encompasses every aspect of our lives today, from smartphones to tablets, and even smart home appliances. Here are some easy ways to incorporate tech into your home and lifestyle.    Lighting   Most people still stick to the standard white lighting for their homes, even though you can now have mood-based lighting that can that can change colour instantly on demand. The Philips Living-Colors table lamp is one option that lets you choose from 16 million colors. There are also LED bulbs offered by companies like Syska, Enrg and IOTA that can be plugged into normal sockets. You can change their colours using free apps on your smartphone.    Home automation   Getting a home automation system integrated into your house can be a tedious job and it's better to do it during construction. However, now there is a simpler way to do it, thanks to a plug-and-play option offered by Oakter. It comes with a central hub that connects to your home WiFi and enables the remote control of plugged-in appliances. Oakter's Smart kit ( priced at Rs 10,000) includes a few leaves to plug in your devices and allows you to add more, if required. Once it is set up, the system lets you control all connected devices using a smartphone app.    Security   There are two ways to enhance your home's security using tech. One is to set up a security camera. Buy a wireless IP camera that supports two-way audio communication (priced at Rs 5,000 on wards), place it on a flat surface or mount it on a wall and connect it to a power outlet, then configure the camera with your Wi-Fi network using the smartphone app and you can access the camera feed via the app or a browser. The other way is to install a smart door lock. There are various options available, including pin-code locks, fingerprint locks and Bluetooth locks.    Sound   When it comes to audio, what will set you apart is having a speaker in your shower. The Kohler Moxie Showerhead has a built-in magnet that holds the waterproof Bluetooth spea ker in place. It has a recharge able battery and pairs with your phone or tablet to play music. There is a similar offering by Enrg called Opera. Another option that is available is LED bulbs with built-in speakers, which connect to your smartphone via Bluetooth for playback.    Accessories to geek up your home   USB power sockets   Most of our handled devices today use USB charging cables. So, instead of looking around for a charger every time, why not just get a wall outlet with built-in USB charging ports for your home? Havells offers a switch plate under their Crabtree brand that replaces an existing switch with a USB port to plug in charging wires directly.    Motion sensor lights   This is not a new concept, but it's not very common in India. A motion sensor light turns on automatically when it detects any motion around it. You can use these outside your home for security, as a night light for corridors, or simply for the ease of not having to flip a switch when you walk in or out of a room.    Robotic vacuum cleaner   While robot servants still seem to be a distant dream, you can get a robotic vacuum cleaner. Milagrow offers various types of robotic vacuum cleaners—floor cleaners, pool cleaners, glass window cleaners and even a lawn robot. These have built-in sensors that prevent them from getting stuck or bumping into objects.  

