URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/internet/another-top-communications-head-quits-twitter/articleshow/53552688.cms

Title : Another top communications head quits Twitter - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Twitter,Natalie Kerris,Leslie Bernard,Jim Prosser,Jack Dorsey

Date :  Aug 05, 2016, 10.30 AM IST

Document ID : 179

Content:
  NEW YORK: After the departure of former Apple executive Natalie Kerris earlier this week who joined micro-blogging website Twitter in February as Vice President (communications), Jim Prosser, Twitter's head of corporate, revenue and policy communications, has quit the company.     Prosser is the third top communications Twitter executive who have quit in a month, Tech Crunch reported on Friday.     Before Kerris, Twitter's head of product communications Rachel Delphin had left the company.     Twitter CMO Leslie Bernard will take over the duties of leading communications, the report said.     Earlier, Kerris quit at a time when Twitter is struggling to find new grounds to overcome stalled user growth and stagnated revenues.     In a statement, Twitter confirmed Kerris's departure, saying she helped "share the Twitter story with the world".     "During her time leading communications at Twitter, Natalie helped us share the Twitter story with the world. We are grateful for her energy and enthusiasm and the impact she's had, even in this short time. We wish her all the best," the company said.     In a bid to regain footing in the social media landscape, Twitter recently appointed Bret Taylor -- former chief technology officer at Facebook and an ex-Google employee who helped build Google Maps -- to its board.     Since Jack Dorsey taking over as Twitter CEO, the company has hired several new board members like British internet entrepreneur Martha Lane Fox, Pepsi CFO Hugh Johnston and BET CEO Debra Lee.     The 10-year-old Twitter is facing stalled user growth and growing competition for quite some time now.     Twitter is going through a major overhaul under Dorsey as many top-notch executives have quit the company in the recent past.    

