URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/why-it-makes-sense-to-shift-to-direct-mutual-fund-plans/articleshow/52052589.cms

Title : Why it makes sense to shift to direct mutual fund plans - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SIP,Retail investors,mutual funds,financial planning,ET Wealth,Amfi

Date :  May 02, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 852

Content:
  Investor interest in direct plans offered by mutual funds, guided by better ratings from agencies, is on the rise. It is a known fact that direct plans generate better returns because of their lower expense ratio, and since rating agencies use risk-return analysis to grade schemes, direct plans, by default, get a better rating. If you scan through any of the rating agencies' websites—Morningstar or Value Research, for instance—you will find that direct plans of most schemes have a better rating by at least one star, compared with their regular plans.     The impact of lower expense ratio will be felt more in categories where the average return is relatively low, such as debt and arbitrage funds. In fact, the direct plans of several arbitrage funds lead their regular cousins by two stars. Though the standard difference in cost between direct and regular plans is around 0.75%, in some cases, it can be close to 2% (see chart: The heavy burden of the expense ratio). If a similar trend continues, you may see a rating difference of more than one star in other categories as well.    Investing made easier   Though direct plans are cheaper, investors need to assess first whether they are capable of handling their own investments or they need advice. "If the investor is capable of managing his investment, it makes sense to go for direct plans," says Deepesh Raghav, Founder, Personal Finance Plan. Investors on direct plans can also take the help of Sebi-registered investment advisors (RIAs) by paying a fee.     RIAs usually advise on financial planning and mutual funds. The execution is left to the investors. However, investing in direct plans has become a lot easier—no longer do you have to go the the mutual fund's office—due to the launch of several online portals— Oro Wealth, Invezta, Unovest, Bharosa Club, among others—dedicated to direct plans. Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI)-sponsored Mutual Fund Utilities (MFU) also allow investors to purchase direct plans through them. Even for direct plan investors who need handholding at the execution stage, things have become easier. MFUs also allow the RIAs to enter investment details on behalf of their customers, if the customer wants it. "Now the MFU platform allows me to enter investment details and the same goes to the client for online approval and gets executed once it's approved," says Raghav.     The main advantage of these online platforms is that they allow retail investors to carry out transactions across mutual funds in one place and thus help them to keep track of all their investments. Portals like Invezta and Oro Wealth also allow customers to manage their family's portfolio. "Using a single ID, investors can manage their family's account," says Nitin Agarwal, Cofounder, Oro Wealth.    Cost calculations   While the expense ratios of direct plans are lower, investors have to pay fee to the RIAs they engage with. For instance, RIA Personal Finance Plan charges Rs 5,000 for mutual fund advisory, Rs 20,000 for comprehensive financial planning, and Rs 10,000 for reviewing financial plans. Investors also have to pay a fee to the online portals. Since this is in nascent stage, the cost structure is still evolving. Among the online portals, MFUs don't charge investors and being an industry initiative, are likely to offer the service for free.     However, investors going through other portals have to make small payments. "As of now, we are not charging, but we plan introduce a fee soon. It will be convenience charge (every time you make a purchase) of Rs 50 for investment upto Rs 1 lakh and 10 basis points (bps) for higher investments," says Agarwal. Even if RIA or online portals charge you 25 bps or 10 bps per annum respectively, it will still be significantly cheaper than the difference in the recurring expense ratio of regular and direct plans—around 75 bps.     Portals such as Oro Wealth use the MFU platform. Then why should you go there and pay extra? The general feedback is that the front end of the MFU platform is not that user-friendly and it is here that the portals provide value and hence the cost. Most portals also provide other value added services. "We have built a risk-profiling tool (or robo advisor) and we recommend portfolio allocation and schemes," says Agarwal. Most online portals also help you to get your KYC registrations.     Since these platforms are new, investors should note that their front end may not be very robust now. For example, while you can start an SIP online using the MFU platform, online cancellation is not allowed— you need to go to their point of sales and sign a physical form. Since portals like Oro Wealth, Bharosa Club, Unovest, etc. are using MFU for executions, this restriction is applicable for these platforms as well.    

