URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/deals/goldman-gati-legal-tussle-over-fccbs-escalates-into-full-blown-war/articleshow/53184900.cms

Title : Goldman-GATI legal tussle over FCCBs escalates into full blown war - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Telengana,Secunderabad,Macquarie Bank,Goldman Sachs,Gati

Date :  Jul 13, 2016, 02.12 AM IST

Document ID : 662

Content:
  MUMBAI: The battle between Goldman Sachs and leading logistics company GATI has boiled over into a full blown legal war with the promoter of the local company refusing to let the blue blooded US investment bank convert outstanding bonds and gain a significant stake in the company.     The latest round of the 2-year long battle has gone in favour of Goldman with the city court in Secunderabad recently restraining the Indian company from pursuing any strategic corporate action like issuing fresh equity, declaring dividends, disposing assets, entering into any joint venture with any third party or entering into any merger or de-merger.      Gati on it part has also challenged the lower court order in the High Court.     At the heart of the controversy said multiple sources in the know is Goldman's efforts since February 2014 to convert the company's FCCBs. Sources say, these convertible debt instruments were originally issued in 2006 but were restructured in December of 2011 and re-issued to the American investment bank. It holds the lion's share -- nearly $20 million out of the $22 million - of the outstanding FCCBs.     Sources say, if Goldman converts the entire amount as per the pre-agreed stock price, it may end up owning close to 24 per cent equity share capital of the company thereby significantly diluting all existing shareholders proportionately. The current promoter shareholding of Mahendra Agarwal, the founder and CEO of GATI and his family, as on March 2016 is 41.4% with public shareholders owning the residual 58.9%. Of that Macquarie Bank and investor Amol Parikh owns 5.7% and 2.62% respectively.     "The company has already filed the appeal before the high court and the matter is being pursued in discussion with our attorneys," said Sanjeev Jain, director - finance, GATI in response to ET's detailed email query. "All past developments relating to FCCB matters have adequately been disclosed/updated in our annual report/quarterly accounts and adding anything further at this stage will not be appropriate on this matter since the same is subjudice," he added.     The company's Chairman KL Chugh, independent director Sunil Alagh and Goldman Sachs all refused to comment on the issue.     After issuing conversion notices to Gati between February to June 2014, in December of that year, a specific performance and injunction suit was filed by Trustee (BNY Mellon) in Secunderabad Civil Court at the direction of Goldman.     The genesis of the dispute lies in the FCCB bonds worth $22 million (about Rs 148 crore), that company had issued in December 2011. In mid-2015, the city court in Secunderabad and subsequently in early 2016 the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and Telengana also rejected GATI's appeal to dismiss the suit filed by the bondholders.     FCCBs are quasi debt instruments that can be fully converted into stocks once the share price goes beyond the pre-agreed price. If the price languishes below this till the close of the FCCB tenure, the amount has to be repaid by the company like a debt.     But unlike most cases where the share price has fallen, in GATI it has significantly appreciated on the back of the company turning around and focussing on new emerging space like e-commerce. For example, when GS invested in the instrument in December 2011, GATI's stock was trading at Rs 29/share. The conversion price agreed between the two was Rs 37-Rs 38/share. By February 2014, when the conversion notices were sent to the company, the stock had already moved up to Rs 61/share and went on to touch a peak of Rs 284/share. The current market price is Rs 173/share with a market cap of Rs 900 crore.     As per back of the envelope calculations, post interest accruals, the original $20 million investment would have fetched GS around $30 million but its actual worth today has almost doubled. "As against a profit of around $9-$10 million, they are now sitting on a round $40 million profit," said a senior Mumbai based legal executive aware of the matter. "That's reason enough for Goldman to fight tooth and nail for what is rightfully theirs."     Gati which in the past was struggling with high debt, has done well to improve its debt issues. Although the gross debt has remained flattish since the issue of FCCB in late 2011 at Rs 427 crore, the earnings have picked up significantly. Gross Debt to EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation and tax) ratio which indicates company's debt repaying ability has improved to less than 3 times in FY16 as against over 6 times in FY12. Anything above 4 is perceived to be risky.     The revenues for the company have also gone up to Rs 1656 crore in FY16 from Rs 1176 crore in the same period and net profits have trebled.     "Gati continues to maintain its market leadership in the express distribution industry," said an analyst report from ICICI Direct on the company in April. "The express distribution market is currently valued at Rs 17, 50,000 crore, which is further broadly distributed among documents and non-documents segments. Gati remains the market leader in the non-documents market with around 19% market share."     Over the past two years, Gati's e-commerce revenues, have grown at a CAGR of 140%. The segment revenue now contributes approximately 19% to the standalone revenue as compared to 13% a year ago.     "FCCB is like any other contract with embedded option of conversion to equity in favour of lenders. However, most Indian promoters who are fighting FCCB disputes with their lenders do not seem to have understood this instrument well at time of issuing it," said Jayesh H, founder of law firm Juris Corp. "When company's stock prices goes up significantly beyond the pre agreed conversion price, some promoters feel that they have sold their equity cheaply and then the disputes starts."     This is a problem across emerging economies and not limited to just India, feels Amit Tondon, MD of Institutional Investors Advisory Services (IIAS). "When FCCB holders subscribe to such bonds, they are now keeping recovery cost and legal cost in mind at the time of subscription," said Tondon.     "With 500 two wheelers and about 320 four wheelers, and reach to 20000 pin codes, Gati claims to be one of the top 5 e-commerce logistics service provider in India. The company has scaled up its delivery capacity to 72000 packages per month in Q3FY16 as compared to 37000 packages in FY15," wrote Bharat Chhoda and Ankit Panchmatia, analysts ICICI Direct.  

