URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/we-do-not-need-capital-for-the-next-12-15-months-pk-gupta-md-sbi/articleshow/53738689.cms

Title : We do not need capital for the next 12-15 months: PK Gupta, MD, SBI - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : SBI Life,SBI,PK Gupta,Market capitalisation,Market,AQR

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 03.12 PM IST

Document ID : 631

Content:
 In a conversation with ET Now, PK Gupta, MD, SBI talks about the bank's capitalisation needs. Edited Excerpts.   Do you believe that the bank is fully capitalised?   I think if you would have seen Q1 results, our total capital adequacy ratio now is above 14%. So we do not really have any particular challenge as far as capital is concerned. Also, the government has already announced infusion of Rs 7,575 crore in SBI this year and this 14% ratio is without accounting for that. It also does not account for the profits made in Q1. Hence, SBI is fairly well capitalised. We do not probably need any capital for the next 12 to 15 months. Beyond that, we should be in a position to raise capital. Right now, some of the performance parameters do not look so good because of the additional provisioning that we had to made on account of AQR but going forward we expect the provisioning to come down, and that maybe the time then actually we go to the market and raise money from the market also actually.    How will consolidation eat away the capital of the bank and how much do you peg the capital will be required for this?   I think on a consolidated basis also we are fairly well capitalised. As I said earlier, we do not need capital for the next 12 to 15 months actually even on a consolidated basis. Plus there are lot of other things which are in the pipeline that we can always take advantage of. One is monetisation of our subsidiaries. There has been some talk about selling stake in SBI Life that may happen at some point of time. Other than that, there are lot of other core assets and non-core assets that we have in our books that we can sell and raise some capital. Looking at the valuation of bank, I think, the market would be in a position to give some capital whenever we need.  

