URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//how-the-rupee-movement-affects-markets/articleshow/11945058.cms

Title : How the Rupee movement affects markets - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Rupee Movement,Rupee depreciation,RBI,equity investors

Date :  Feb 19, 2012, 07.22 AM IST

Document ID : 431

Content:
      The rupee movement has a significant impact on the bottomlines of corporates. The recent results declared by companies have confirmed this. Last year, due to various reasons, the rupee depreciated significantly. The depreciation in the currency helped bolster the rupee earnings of IT companies. The rupee lost 16 per cent of its value in 2011 and hit a low of Rs 54.30 against the US dollar in December 2011.             Due to the positive economic data in the recent past and foreign institutional investor (FII) inflows, the rupee is now strengthening. With the currency now strengthening, the revenues of export-oriented companies could be negatively impacted in the near term.             A weak rupee meant the rupee revenue grew much higher as compared to the corresponding dollar revenue growth. Similarly, a depreciation in value helps expand margins. This is because in case of rupee depreciation, the value of the rupee decreases vis-a-vis the US dollar. As such, you get more rupees for a dollar.             As the overseas billings may by in dollar terms, the growth in dollar terms may be negligible. However, because of the value depreciation , in case of conversion of the dollar revenue into rupees, there will be significant increases. This increase, in real terms, is due to the currency movement effect. It does not represent real growth in the business .             This also applies to import-sensitive companies. Companies with higher import dependence had to suffer because of the rupee decline. They had to shell out more rupees, even though the dollar cost may have remained the same. As normally , companies do not go for a 100 per cent hedging option, all the unhedged exposures had to be met at the prevailing higher rates.             This also applies to companies with a high proportion of foreign exchange borrowings . They have to service the debt and also repay the loans. In the past, as overseas borrowing was cheaper than domestic borrowing, many companies opted for these instruments. One of the main instruments was the foreign currency convertible bond (FCCB). This is a foreign currency bond issued by a domestic company to foreign investors. These are listed on foreign stock exchanges. On maturity of the bond, the holder has the option to either redeem the bond or get it converted to equity shares at a pre-determined price.             Companies raised substantial funds through this route during the bull phase. The main reason was the low interest rates in the overseas markets. Another reason was the booming domestic stock markets. The companies hoped that there wouldn't be any need to return the FCCB money at maturity because investors would convert these to equity. The overseas investors opted for FCCBs because they expected the share prices to keep rising. They had the option to convert these into equity at a pre-fixed (lower) price. As a result, they saw substantial profit-making opportunities .             However, the fall in stock prices has changed the story. Many of these scrips are ruling below the conversion prices. As such, investors would opt for redemption rather than conversion.             As most of these liabilities were not hedged, companies were forced to report marked-to-market losses. A weak rupee raised costs for these companies as they had to pay back their bond-holders in foreign currency instead of converting the value into shares. So, investors need to track the forex exposures of companies , before deciding on investing in them. A higher unhedged forex exposure can be a risky proposition. It is not only the proportion of revenue between rupee and dollar that matters. You also need to see how the capital of the company is built - whether it has a higher proportion of forex bonds in the capital structure.             The share prices of such stocks are affected by these facts. The valuation of a company's stock takes into account the forex risks as well because they have a substantial impact on the bottomlines of companies.    

