URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/fifteen-stocks-in-focus-on-monday-18-july-2016/articleshow/53258381.cms

Title : Fifteen stocks in focus on Monday, 18 July 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Taparia,Reliance Industries,Reddy's Laboratories,Monsanto,LT Foods,Lakshmi Vilas Bank,lakshmi vilas,Jindal Poly Films Ltd,Jindal Poly,IOC,indian oil,Idea Cellular,HUL,Gayatri Projects Ltd,Gayatri Projects,Dr. Reddy's Laboratories,Den Networks,BPCL,Bharti Airtel,Bayer,Axis Bank Ltd,Axis Bank

Date :  Jul 18, 2016, 08.00 AM IST

Document ID : 826

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open higher on Monday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.     "The immediate trend is intact to positive as it has been making the higher top - higher bottom, supports are shifting higher and sustained buying is being witnessed at every small decline on important trading levels," Chandan Taparia, Derivatives Analyst - Equity Research, Anand Rathi Financial Services told ETMarkets.com.     "It has to continue to hold above 8500 zones to add strength and up move towards 8650-8700 zones while holding below 8480 might attract a profit booking decline towards 8420 then 8380 levels," he added.    Here is a list of top fifteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Reliance Industries:  The consolidated profit for the oil & gas major in the first quarter of 2016-17 fiscal rose 18 per cent to Rs 7,113 crore ($1.1 billion), backed by strong margins in its refining and petrochemicals business.    HUL:  Kotak Institutional Equities expect 12 per cent growth in recurring PAT largely aided by higher GMs; we model 110 bps year-on-year expansion in GMs aided by sustained softening of key inputs.    Bharti Airtel:  Bharti Airtel, the country's top operator, announced a major cut in data tariffs on Sunday, the reduction coming just a few days after data benefits were also thrown in by Birla-owned Idea cellular.    Ashok Leyland:  Hinduja Group flagship Ashok Leyland will be setting up a bus assembly plant in Kenya with an investment of Rs 70 crore as part of its global expansion plans.    IOC, HPCL, BPCL: Indian Oil Corp (IOC) said that it will cut the price of diesel by 0.8 percent from Saturday and that of petrol by 3.5 percent, the company said in a statement.    Axis Bank, IDFC Bank:  Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has allowed foreign investors to up their stakes in Axis Bank Ltd and IDFC Bank Ltd to up to 74% and 46%, respectively.    Monsanto:  Bayer AG has raised the stakes in its attempt to buy Monsanto Co. The German company upped its bid to $54.7 billion in cash, a $3-a-share increase to $125 a share, said a media report.    Tata Motors:  Tata Motors plans to raise Rs 3,000 crore in the next 12 months through non-convertible debentures (NCDs) or rupee denominated non-convertible foreign currency bonds on a private placement basis.    Lakshmi Vilas Bank:  Private lender Lakshmi Vilas Bank is looking to raise Rs 400-500 crore by issuing fresh equity shares to shore up depleting capital and meet funding needs for the next two fiscals.    Den Networks:  Cable distribution firm Den Networks, which runs a TV merchandise channel in association with Jasper Infotech, will increase its stake in the venture to 82.87 per cent. The company presently has 50 per cent share in Macro Commerce, which owns the TV channel.    Jindal Poly:  Jindal Poly Films Ltd, the flagship company of B C Jindal group, has commissioned 7th BOPP films production line of 41,000 TPA increasing the India BOPP capacity to 251,000 TPA at its Nasik (Maharashtra) Location, said a media report.    Gayatri Projects Ltd:  The board of directors of Gayatri Projects Ltd which will enable the company and its subsidiary to transfer road build, own and operate (BOT) mode road projects to Gayatri Domicile Ltd, said a media report.    LT Foods Ltd:  LT Foods Limited has acquired iconic brand 817 Elephant brand of rice through its UK subsidiary LT Foods International Limited to further strengthen its existing presence in Canada, USA and Israel, said a media report.    Dr Reddy's Laboratories:  Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd expects complex generics, proprietary products, including creation of branded generics platform in the US, to be the main drivers of its growth going forward.    VRL Logistics:  Private equity firm New Silk Route (NSR) on Friday sold its remaining 5.16 per cent stake in logistics firm VRL Logistics Ltd through a block trade on the stock exchanges for around Rs.147 crore, said two people aware of the development, said a media report.        

