URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/suits-sayings-wackiest-whispers-and-murmurs-in-corporate-corridors-and-policy-parlours/articleshow/53703365.cms

Title : Suits & sayings: Wackiest whispers and murmurs in corporate corridors and policy parlours - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Reliance,LYF,Ivy League

Date :  Aug 15, 2016, 05.24 AM IST

Document ID : 663

Content:
 ET's weekly roundup of the wackiest whispers & murmurs in corporate corridors & policy parlours...   What Price Media Spotlight?    It's hard to stay out of the media glare once you get used to the spotlight, a former head of an industry lobby found out to his dismay. He missed it so much that he asked his men to find out the next available position that he could "buy". We hear that the search led to the technology industry lobby group too, where some members were shocked to hear how much it "costs" to be the head.    Powder Power for TV Appearances    Tycoons are expected to know their balance sheets, but at least one of them has mastered the art of make-up as well. A billionaire with a sharp eye for detail has figured out that talking sharp alone doesn't do the trick; you need to look the part as well. So before a TV appearance, he makes it a point to powder his nose and cheeks, knowing fully well that an oily face ruins the appearance on the small screen.    An Easy Switchover    Bankers are taking up corporate jobs by the dozen. From the Birlas to Reliance and even Tatas, the list is long and covers almost every large organisation. The latest case, we hear, is that of veteran telecom and technology specialist Madhur Deora, managing director-investment banking at Citi, crossing over to join Paytm as its chief financial officer. Deora was instrumental in getting influential or strategic investors such as Ratan Tata and Alibaba on board. The new role at the unicorn should then fit him like a glove.    From Rainmaker To Entrepreneur    Here's an addition to the growing list of rainmakers who have decided to hang up their boots to turn entrepreneurs. We are talking about a banker handling the Asia-Pacific operations of a Swiss investment bank who had been running the operations in India with a skeletal staff. Last week the bank's global headquarters informed its Indian employees in an email about the exit of the investment banker.    From Singapore to Mumbai    A banker is shifting his base from Singapore to Mumbai after he lost his job with a German bank. His super boss has already left the job and is facing turbulence with the regulators in Europe. But this banker is keen to follow his boss' steps. Like his boss, who picked up a stake in an Indian non-banking finance firm started by one of his employees, the Singaporereturned banker is scouting for opportunities in India.    A Kind of Loving    The chairman of one of India's oldest conglomerates recently reminded the company's top brass just who the boss is. When a leader during a presentation spoke about former heads and chairmen showering employees with "affectionate love", the chairman said with his characteristic wry sense of humour that it was now time for "tough love".    All For a Brand New Look    A fat-cat corporate honcho, known for the passion with which he runs his company but currently facing negative press for a variety of reasons, has decided that just like his company's businesses, he too needs a makeover. We hear that he has turned to one of the country's top image consultants - who has close friends among the high and mighty, including those on the run - for some masterclass and work is on in full earnest. The head honcho needs a few lessons for sure and we hope he acts on them, but we wonder if an influential banker played a role in bringing together these two.    The Limit on Unlimited Offer    Reliance Jio's offer of three months of free unlimited voice and data service bundled with the company's Lyf phones has been a hit in a market where consumers are extremely price conscious and lap up anything that offers value for money. Some consumers have been using the phone as Wi-Fi hotspot, owing to superfast speeds on Jio's network, to download anything and everything till the offer lasts. So much so that the company officials unearthed a case of 1 TB worth of downloads, after which the user was barred.    From Investing To Teaching    A high-profile fund manager, who left an American fund which has invested several billion dollars in India, has shifted to teaching at an Ivy League institution in America. The fund manager, a Stanford grad, is now teaching entrepreneurship and the art of investing while his two junior fund managers have done a superb job of cleaning up the portfolio companies and making better investments. Some fund managers are apparently better at teaching than investing.  

