URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/corporate-trends/rajesh-sud-max-life-md-set-to-get-severance-package-pegged-at-rs-25-crore-plus/articleshow/53607815.cms

Title : Rajesh Sud, Max Life MD, set to get severance package pegged at Rs 25 crore plus - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Rajesh Sud,Max Life Insurance,max life,HDFC Life,ANZ Grindlays Bank

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 02.31 AM IST

Document ID : 673

Content:
  MUMBAI: Managing director of Max Life Rajesh Sud is set to get a severance package exceeding Rs 25 crore in the Max Life-HDFC Life deal, about two times his annual salary. Sud will not be heading the merged entity, which was renamed as HDFC Life.     Amitabh Chaudhri, MD of HDFC Life, will head the merged entity. "The shareholders of Max Life have decided to pay a severance package of Rs 27 crore to Rajesh Sud, who will not be leading the merged entity," said a source in the know of the development.     Sud, however, will help in the transition and be part of the merger and stay with the company for another 12 months. Max Life is one of the best paymasters in the insurance sector.     "Sud will help in the merger and stay with the company for another 12 months before taking on a new assignment," said another source.     Sud has been with Max Life Insurance since its inception in 2001and was a founder team member. In November 2008, he took over as the CEO & managing director of the company. In 2010, the company turned profitable and entered into bancassurance tie-up with Axis Bank, which today generates close to two-third of the premium for the private sector life insurer.     "This information is incorrect and baseless. We strongly object to your publishing this kind of sensitive information on the basis of speculation, rumours and unreliable sources, especially at a time when we cannot comment on matters relating to the proposed merger in light of our confidentially and exclusivity agreement with HDFC Life," said Max Financial Services in a statement.     On January 29, 2016, Sud was appointed executive vice-chairman and MD of Max Life Insurance. He was instrumental in establishing a multi-channel distribution network for the individual life business and agency as the core channel for the company.     Prior to joining Max Life Insurance, Sud was the head of asset finance business at ANZ Grindlays Bank. He started his career with Bank of America and held various positions of increasing responsibility.     He was part of the transition team that managed the successful sale of Bank of America's consumer banking business to ABN Amro Bank and served as the head of consumer banking — sales.  

