URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/plan/how-to-break-free-from-dumb-financial-decisions/articleshow/53682088.cms

Title : How to break free from dumb financial decisions - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : retirement,mutual fund,ET Wealth,EPF,emis,ELSS

Date : Aug 15, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 356

Content:
  Be it taking gym membership that has never been used or sharing credit card PIN with a stranger, most of us have pushed our hard-earned money down the drain at one time or another.     On this Independence day, ET Wealth tells you why and how to free yourself from flawed financial moves.    1. Buying life insurance for a child   Why is it dumb?   Life insurance is bought to replace the salary of a breadwinner, if he expires. A child doesn't earn and doesn't need insurance. Most parents buy it as an investment, not realising that the premium is high and returns are low.    How to be free   Surrender the traditional plan and invest the amount in a mutual fund or an ELSS for the long-term goals of the child.    Your smart quotient   Should your child be covered under a health plan?    a Yes    b No        2. Buying a house you cant afford         Why is it dumb?     It may not be a smart move if it's impacting your other goals. A house is an illiquid asset, and if you have a transferable job, are not sure where you will settle and cannot invest for other goals, postpone this goal.    How to be free   Experts advise not to spend more than 30% of your income on loan EMIs. If buying a house means not being able to save for retirement, don't buy it.    Your smart quotient   Is buying a house your only retirement plan?    a Yes    b No. I'm investing separately for retirement        3. Buying time-share plans         Why is it dumb?     For one, you are unlikely to use the vacation time-share plans fully. You will need to fit into the fixed regimen of pre-determined days at specific locations booked 5-6 months in advance. Besides, only lodging is free; you pay for everything else, including food.    How to be free   With weekend holidaying big on trend and light on pocket, travel at will without the burden of high upfront amount and EMIs for time-share plans.    Your smart quotient   Have you bought a time-share plan even though you have not started investing for your children's goals?    a Yes    b No, I have bought it with surplus income.    4. Keeping up with Joneses   Why is it dumb?   If you want to keep pace with your wealthy neighbour or relative, your expenses may not be able to keep pace with your income. This will cut down on your surplus amount and investments, ultimately impacting your goals.    How to be free   Compare incomes first, instead of the new iPhone and cars your neighbour buys, or the number of holidays he takes. Indulge in expensive binges only if you have some surplus left after investing.    Your smart quotient   Are your monthly expenses more than your income?    a Yes    b No    5. Withdrawing EPF corpus   Why is it dumb?   If you withdraw the corpus before five years of continuous service, it is taxable. Since there are few savings that people dedicate exclusively to retirement, it is advisable to allocate the EPF to this goal.    How to be free   If you shift jobs, have the amount transferred to your new employer. For emergencies, maintain a contingency fund. As a rule, do not dip into the EPF corpus.    Your smart quotient   Do you have an emergency corpus equal to 3-6 months of your expenses?    a Yes    b No    6. Not having fun money in budget   Why is it dumb?   You will constantly overshoot your budget if you don't provide for fringe or entertainment expenses. It's human to want to spend on oneself and essential to stay motivated to save.    How to be free   Designate a nominal amount for eating out or movies or just for fun shopping every month.    Your smart quotient   How many times do you eat out in a month?    a Never    b 1-2 times    7. Not spending on career   Why is it dumb?   Enrolling in a new course or acquiring a skill mid-career can enhance your income manifold. So taking some money out from your tight budget could pay in the long run.    How to be free   Keep yourself updated with information related to your profession through online or offline courses, or literature. You could even take a loan for studying if it means a significant rise in income later.    Your smart quotient   Have you got a promotion in the past three years?    a Yes    b No    8. Sharing your password or PIN with strangers   Why is it dumb?   Fraudsters will gain access to your bank account or credit card and wipe out your savings, or conduct online transactions in what is possibly the easiest way to lose money.    How to be free   Never offer sensitive financial information regarding banking, insurance or taxation to anyone over mail or phone.    Your smart quotient   Do you have the same password for all your online accounts?    a Yes    b No        9. Investing in fixed deposits         Why is it dumb?     You get a lower rate of interest, the maturity amount is taxable and you have to add up the interest on deposit every year to your taxable income. It's not exempt under Section 80C unless it's a tax-saving five-year fixed deposit.    How to be free   Invest in avenues offering better returns such as mutual funds or ELSS plans.    Your smart quotient   If you are less than 35 years old, what percentage of your investment is in debt?    a Over 65%    b Less than 35%    Give yourself 1 point if you have selected the following:   1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (b) 4. (b) 5. (a) 6. (b) 7. (a) 8. (b) 9. (b)    How smart are you  1 - 3  You are verging on the dumb. Increase your awareness and knowledge about your finances.    4 - 6  You could move towards flawed decisions if you are not careful and don't read up on personal finance.    7 - 9  You're smart. You don't need to take this quiz.  

