URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/huawei-to-start-mobile-manufacturing-in-india/articleshow/53739903.cms

Title : Huawei to start mobile manufacturing in India - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Smartphone,Peter Zhai,Huawei,Flipkart,Bengaluru

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 04.42 PM IST

Document ID : 231

Content:
  NEW DELHI: World's third largest smartphone seller Huawei will start manufacturing handsets in India soon, details of which will be announced in about a month.     "Now we already have licences for manufacturing in place. In short term we will announce our local manufacturing plan...in one month," Peter Zhai, President for Huawei India Consumer Business Group today said at the launch of Huawei P9.     The company expects India to be its second largest mobile devices market after China.     "As international brand, we are interested in developing our India business at right time. It is going to be second largest mobile devices market after China. We will be aggressive in India. Huawei will increase presence across 50,000 stores by end of this year from about couple of thousands now," Zhai said.     Huawei has been selling mobile phones in India since last 16 years and established its research and development centre in Bengaluru in 1999.     The company sells smartphones under two brand names - Huawei and Honor. It has launched new Huawei brand phone in India after a gap of almost three years.     "India is a very special market. we would like to be more localised in terms of branding. We have a team of 3,000 people in R&D; which we would like to leverage for local understanding of consumer needs," Zhai said.     Huawei P9 comes with three antennas to improve signal quality and help reduce call drops, he said.     Huawei is also planning to set up its own branded stores but has not firmed up its plan yet.     The company also unveiled two tablet PCs - the Matebook and the TalkBand B3 - which will be debuting in India soon.     Huawei P9, priced at Rs 39,999, has started selling at ecommerce portal Flipkart from today.     The 5.2 inch 4G smartphone comes with dual quad core processors, dual 12 mega pixel rear camera and 8 mp front camera, 3,000 mAh battery, 3GB RAM, 32GB internal memory besides multiple sensors.  

