URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/18-stocks-in-focus-on-monday-august-1-2016/articleshow/53483670.cms

Title : 18 stocks in focus on Monday, August 1, 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sun Pharma,parliament,HPCL,GST Bill,Amara Raja Batteries,Adi Godrej

Date :  Aug 01, 2016, 07.56 AM IST

Document ID : 833

Content:
  The domestic equity market is likely to see strong opening on Monday amid hopes of Parliament clearance to the much-awaited GST bill. Here are a couple of stocks that are likely to be in limelight all through the session.    GST-linked stocks:  Logistics stocks, Amara Raja Batteries, Ashok Leyland, Symphony, Bata India, Greenply Industries, Asian Paints, Havells India, PVR, UFO Movies and Maruti Suzuki are among the stocks that may see action as the GST bill is going to be tabled in Parliament today    Godrej Consumer:  The Rs 8,957 crore fast-moving consumer goods arm of the Adi Godrej Group proposes to triple revenue from its Indonesian business in five years, said Naveen Gupta, business head Indonesia and West Asia.    Colgate-Palmolive:  The FMCG giant plans to launch an India-focused brand as Patanjali Ayurved threatens to upend the established order in fast-moving consumer goods.    RIL:  Reliance Industries' forgotten investment in Asian Paints through a firm called Ojasvi Trading in early 2008 has yielded it 10 times returns as the paint maker's market value crossed Rs 1,00,000 crore on July 22.    OMCs:  Petrol price was cut by Rs 1.42 a litre and diesel by Rs 2.01 per litre on Sunday night, which was the third reduction in rates this month on global cues. It could bring in pressure on the oil retailing firms such as IOC, HPCL and BPCL.    Sun Pharma:  a Mumbai Industrial Court has ruled that Sun Pharma adopted unfair labour practices by holding back salaries of 86 sales promotion employees since May after they protested planned changes in service conditions.    ICICI Bank:  After a strong rally of about 43% since February, shares of the private lender recently gave up some of these gains ahead of its June quarter results. Though net profit for the June 2016 quarter managed to beat Street expectations, the stock may continue to remain under pressure as the weak operating performance and elevated slippages may continue to affect net interest margin.  

