URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//koramangala-firms-look-for-corporate-clients-to-up-profits/articleshow/51579900.cms

Title : Koramangala firms look for corporate clients to up profits - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Koramangala corporate clients,Koramangala,corporate clients,companies in Koramangala

Date :  Mar 27, 2016, 10.16 PM IST

Document ID : 412

Content:
  By Medha Gupta     KORMANGALA: Home services based startups which were so far in the B2C sector are now venturing into the B2B categories too by collaborating with corporate biggies, to provide them services which initially was being provided by various vendors. Big companies are now finding it easier to outsource the work to startups where they don't have to do the background check of workers and don't have to think about the service quality. Also it eases there burden of managing things. Koramangala being a startup hub has seen this shift very closely.     Koramangala-based startup LocalOye, which closed its series A round of VC funding of USD 5 million from Tiger Global Management and Lightspeed Venture Partners in Early 2015, started its new service for the corporate clients these services in December and has successfully catered to 20 corporates / startups across cities. LocalOye is currently present in Mumbai and Gurgaon too.     LocalOye Founder and CEO Adiya Rao on expanding to the B2B vertical says "We were the first ever marketplace to launch a special category called - Corporate Services across Mumbai, NCR and Bengaluru. We offer various services like - Office cleaning, Laptop repairs, Office Party Planning, Office Maintenance etc. At present we have successfully catered to 20 corporates / startups".     For every corporate client LocalOye has a dedicated team. Rao says, "This is beneficial in two ways for us:     First, we get access to a huge group employees in one go. Since corporate offices are located across our key cities, we get to service all their employees. We not only end up giving them corporate service, but also service the individual needs of all the employees. And secondly, Our service partners get bigger and better leads. Our partners stand to get a significant amount of business both from a corporate and an individual point of view." Benefitting from its location in Koramangala, the startup has managed to collaborate with clients from Koramangala itself.     Rao further said, "We now intend to expand the service bouquet that we have to ensure we maintain a healthy repeat rate of 30%. We intend to launch at least 50 more service categories targeted towards our corporate clientele.     Onetimejobs a service-based startup also based out Bengaluru has also grown its reach to the corporate clients now. Major Prashant Rai, Founder & CEO said, "We are interested in growing our corporate clientele. We want to grow our corporate clientele because in B2C model, people who take services are the same people who work for corporates and if they are happy customers in either of two segments, they are our happy customer as end result."     Onetimejobs.com boasts of 3000 happy customers and has already secured 20 corporate clients. As per Rai, It is the ticket size that is attracting more and more startups to tie up with businesses. He says, "Tying up with corporate biggies is like big ticket order which come with huge financial gains. The business generated by 10 individual customers equals the size of one B2B deal. The margins are great in B2B model. Though we are also exploring the B2B segment, our main focus remains the B2C model of business."     Onetime jobs which has also secured corporate clients from Koramangala and the neighbouring areas now plans to expand into new cities and provide more service in other segments like emergency services, bouncers (both male and female) and detective services to name a few.     Based out of Gurgaon, Easyfix which was launched in 2011 started focusing on on B2B2C model in early 2012 when they saw an opportunity in after sale service market. The discovery led them to realizing that they could no longer justify being profitable in their B2C model and EasyFix took a unique and unexplored focus towards B2B2C business model.     "Since then we have been working towards adding new clients to our portfolio but more importantly retaining existing clientele. In the era of 'service' we want to help brands who want to provide installation or repair service experience to their customer. With it's core as Plumbing, Electrical and Carpentry, EasyFix's focus is to organize the unorganized labour centric construction industry." Says Shaifali Holani, Founder & CEO,EasyFix.     Easyfix at present boasts of 65+ paying clients that include- Snapdeal, PepperFry, Mablekart, Hafele, Inalsa, Socktail, Elica, Curtis & Hayes, Heybiz, Wishup, HelpatHomes, Nitra Furniture, Homecity, Alliance, IPSA India, Insaraf, Steelcraftand the likes of product manufacturers and sellers. Holani says, "After starting with a B2C model in 2011, we saw an opportunity in installation market in early 2012 since then we decided to focus on B2B clients to justify our ROI".    

