URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/give-your-startup-a-swift-invigorating-kick-with-these-lessons-from-desi-ventures/articleshow/53397986.cms

Title : Give your startup a swift, invigorating kick with these lessons from desi ventures - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sequoia,India Inc,Ayurveda

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 05.16 AM IST

Document ID : 320

Content:
 Take a look at some Indian startups that have made it big and the reasons behind their success.   Baron Ramdev   Patanjali Ayurved (2006) Founders:  Baba Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna    Breakthrough Moment  Earned Rs 5000 crore revenue in 2015-16, clocking a growth figure of 1100% since inception You can laugh all you want at Baba Ramdev's recent picture on the cover of India Today. This is the one where he's seen in a 'wide-legged forward bend' position, doing what's known as the Prasarita Padottanasana. Of the several funny memes that the picture gave birth to, there was one that rightly pointed out that the picture was symbolic of the Fast Moving Consumer Guru mooning the behemoths of the Indian FMCG world.     The insight behind Patanjali was simple: To build consumer products for a country that's becoming increasingly conscious of its health and wellness, and rapidly realising the benefits of Ayurveda.    The Approach  Until early 2015, Baba Ramdev propagated Patanjali products during his Yoga sessions. Last year we saw him aggressively marketing Patanjali across media. While analysts say only Colgate stands to suffer the most from Patanjali's success, Baba Ramdev has openly claimed to beat several top players in the FMCG space. It's hard to find one category he's not already entered or has announced his plans to enter in the near future. To ensure the Ayurved empire steers clear of individual-led controversy, he's also successfully made MD Acharya Balkrishna the face of the company.     Patanjali has also tapped into the resurgent spirit of nationalism, wearing its Swadeshi credentials on its sleeve (or should that be dhoti?) The Struggle "Some perish in controversy. I flourish in it." Baba Ramdev had said this in an interaction with The Economic Times last year.     From issues with the FSSAI to the ASCI, Patanjali has been through it all and emerged stronger. The company has been working hard on distribution, admittedly a pain point as previously documented in Brand Equity. The Swadeshi company even announced its plans to raise Rs 1000 crore project loan from several public sector banks to expand its presence nation-wide, and extend product lines.    The Success  While Patanjali has clearly led the Ayurveda wave in India Inc with its exemplary growth, that growth will slow down now that the base is not zero anymore.     Several analysts doubt whether Baba Ramdev will be able to meet his claim of doubling FY16's revenue to reach Rs 10,000 crore by 2017. People close to the Yoga man say he has a plan. Well, he's made the likes of Unilever and Colgate take a serious look at ramping up their herbal portfolios.    By Shephali Bhatt     (Image Source: BCCL)   Not A Sour Note   Pulse (2015) Founders:  DS Group, the makers of Rajnigandha, Pass Pass mouth freshener and Catch masalas, among others    Breakthrough Moment  Pulse, a hard boiled candy the flavour of kaccha aam, is not a "startup". After all, its maker is an 87-year-old Indian conglomerate with interests as varied as tobacco, confectionery, dairy products and hospitality. But when within 8 months of launch the candy's sales surged to Rs 100 crore it became what company officials like to call "the startup brand". Which, by the way, equalled a record set by The Coca-Cola Company's Coke Zero, as reported in this paper. In fact Pulse's phenomenal launch and growth contributed significantly to the growth of the overall candy market.    The Approach  "Ek orange candy de de" No brand. No differentiation. That was pretty much the state of affairs in the hard boiled candy category. And still is in many respects. Even though brands like Alpenliebe from Perfetti Van Melle, Parle's Mango Bite and Indonesian coffee candy Kopiko have made inroads in the Rs 6000 crore candy market, the category lacked excitement and genuine innovation. With that as a backdrop DS Group turned to consumer research to see what people wanted, find the need gaps and hopefully fill it with some candy. Flavour was a no brainer. Indians love mango. But they were missing one thing and that was raw mango flavour. Anyone familiar with how we eat raw mango know that it's taken with a generous sprinkling of salty masala.     After extensive sampling exercises, often with employees doubling up as guinea pigs, Pulse, a raw mango-flavour hard boiled candy with a tart salty centre, was born. Shashank Surana, VP, new product development, at DS Group, says "It's Indian tastes in western format". The other critical decision the company took right at the start was pricing the candy at Rs 1 in a predominantly 50 paisa per candy market. Today, over 1300 tons of the candy are pumped out per month and are delivered to Pulse addicts and recreational users using DS Group's distribution might.    The Struggle  Puls, Pulz, Pulsy, and whatnot. Imitation, they say, is the sincerest form of flattery. But it's also awfully annoying. Especially when the imitators stuff their copies in jars full of Pulse, so their candies will be picked up by default. Unsuspecting consumers gobble it up and are left unsatisfied by what they think is Pulse. The company has a massive on-ground sales staff to check malpractices such as this and address consumer complaints. But Surana says they will also take the legal route if there are any copyright infringements on the part of these regional players with their knock-offs.    The Success  Sales of Pulse crossed Rs 150 crore in March 2016. DS Group has launched a guavaflavour Pulse and plans to introduce more flavours by the end of this year. The company is also currently courting a few ad agencies for Pulse's first telly commercial, a departure from its internet focussed marketing strategy which was led mostly by word-of-mouth.    By Delshad Irani    (Image Source: Agencies)  Memories Afloat   Paper Boat (2013) Founders:  Neeraj Kakkar, James Nutall, Suhas Misra and Neeraj Biyani    Breakthrough Moment  The story goes like this, says Neeraj Kakkar, CEO and cofounder, Hector Beverages, the company behind Paper Boat. Four friends gathered after a long time, and amongst many things discussed was if Maa's Aam Panna could be packaged and made readily available to the public at large. Paper Boat was thus born, as possibly India's first pure-play ethnic drink, in a world where for long, colas have reigned supreme. The brand has been backed by investors including Catamaran Ventures, Footprint Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Hillhouse Capital Group, amongst others.    The Approach  The brand's corner stone has been all about dipping into the legacy of home-recipes and serving them up in modern-day households. Its portfolio keeps changing with new drinks being added. These range from North's favourite Aam Panna to the ancient Panakam from down South and many more like Chilli Guava, Neer More, Badam Milk. There are also inclusions like Kachhi lassi (around Baisakhi) and Thandai (aound Holi).     Quality right at the sourcing level is given a lot of importance. For Aamras, for example, the company sources mangoes from their farmers and ripens them naturally - by laying them out on bales of hay in the sun, and turning them by hand to ripen them evenly.     By no means an inexpensive method, but it's the sort of thing that authentically brings much flavour and taste to the Aamras, informs Kakkar. In an earlier meeting, a couple of years ago, he spoke of his struggle to get the right quality and quantity of purple carrots to make his personal favourite Kanji. We are told that his search for the juicy marrows still continues. The brand follows a very strict no preservatives and no added colours policy.     Not just what goes inside but even the packaging has been a big deal right from prelaunch planning. On the prized real-estate of the pack, little nuggets of joy - playful mnemonics, stories, one-liners - are crammed, shares Kakkar.    The Struggle  Distribution has been the biggest challenge. In spite of being widely available online, in modern trade and general stores, the company has to necessarily go toe to toe with the big daddies of the big business: both MNCs as well as the Indian players like Dabur and ITC.    The Success  "For us, innovation is not merely in the way we conceive our products, but in how we reinvent the ways in which we delight our consumers."    By Amit Bapna     (Image Source: BCCL)   Doctor where?   Practo (2009) Founders:  Shashank ND, Abhinav Lal    Breakthrough Moment  From being a B2B clinic management software seller to a B2C doctor appointment product, Practo managed to get the largest fund-raise in the health-tech space The year was 2008. Shashank ND needed to get a second opinion from a doctor in the US for a surgery his father had just undergone. The ordeal of sending his father's medical records overseas made him realise how healthcare had largely missed the technology wave that other industries were quick to ride on. And the realisation led to the foundation of Practo - or what he claims is a full-stack health-tech solution centred around the patient.    The Approach  Practo started off as a clinic management software provider in 2009 and became a consumer-facing app that allows people "to find doctors, diagnostic labs for tests, order medicines and even read healthcare tips and articles written by high quality doctors. We list all doctors for free (post verification, of course)and we have 200,000 doctors, 10,000 hospitals, 8,000 diagnostic centres on our platform. We also provide ease of access via Practo Consult, our online consultation platform that helps consumers chat with high quality doctors whenever they want, wherever they are - so that they can get access to healthcare without disrupting their life. We are also currently running trials for medicine delivery in Bengaluru," Shashank tells us.    The Struggle  We would say not being able to raise funds for more than a couple of years must have been a struggle for sure but Practo did turn that around as of August 2015. With an approximate valuation of more than Rs 3000 crore as of date, Practo managed the largest fund-raise in the health-tech space (Rs 573 crore) from players like Tencent (Chinese online venture giant who made its debut in India with this investment),Sofina (Belgium), Altimeter Capital (the US). According to Shashank, the struggle really has been in ensuring "100% reliable and accurate information about doctors and clinics."    The Success  Practo claims to hold over 90% marketshare amongst all doctors who use software solutions to manage their practice. And it's indisputably the most successful startup in the health-tech space in India — with a presence in 50 cities across 15 countries. Seems like healthy numbers to us, at least.    By Shephali Bhatt 

