URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/wipro-parks-1-5-million-for-minority-stake-in-israeli-cybersecurity-startup/articleshow/53758150.cms

Title : Wipro parks $1.5 million for minority stake in Israeli cybersecurity startup - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : tlv partners,startup,Guy Nizan,Cybersecurity

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 07.52 PM IST

Document ID : 724

Content:
  BENGALURU: India's third largest software exporter Wipro has picked up a minority stake in Israeli cybersecurity startup Intsights Cyber Intelligence for $1.5 million, months after the Bangalore-based firm invested in Israeli venture capital firm TLV Ventures.     In a statement to stock exchanges, Wipro said that it has picked up a minority stake "of less than 20% on a fully diluted basis" in Intsights.     Tel Aviv, Israel-based Intsights was founded in 2015 by Israeli entrepreneur Guy Nizan and offers a software platform to clients that is capable of detecting cyber-attack threats early. In October 2015, Intsights raised $1.8 million from Israeli venture capital firm Glilot Capital Partners which typically invests in software startups.     In June, Wipro Ventures invested an undisclosed amount in Israel-based venture capital firm TLV Partners, marking its first investment in a venture capital firm.     Israel has acquired a new-found importance for India's largest software firms, which are currently struggling to grow their traditional core outsourcing businesses and are hoping that some of their bets on new-age ventures and startups building disruptive ideas will pay off big-time in the near future.     "We see a lot of diversity in the startup ecosystem in Israel. In terms of domain, they solve pretty complex enterprise problems," said Biplab Adhya, who jointly spearheads the $100-million Wipro Ventures with Venu Pemmaraju, in an exclusive interview with ET earlier this year.     Earlier in August, Wipro's cross-town arch-rival Infosys also invested $4 million in Israeli cloud computing startup Cloudyn from the company's $500-million Innovation Fund, which has so far bet on startups in the Silicon Valley, Israel and India.     In 2015, Infosys bought Israel-based automation tech firm Panaya for $200 million.     According to the Startup Genome, which ranks startup ecosystems across the world, Tel Aviv was ranked as the fifth best startup ecosystem in the world in 2015, coming in behind only the Silicon Valley, New York City, Los Angeles and Boston.  

