URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/fifteen-stocks-in-focus-in-tuesdays-trade/articleshow/52739550.cms

Title : Fifteen stocks in focus in Tuesday's trade - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : United Breweries (Holdings) Ltd,Unitech,Sterlite Technologies,Power Grid,Jubilant FoodWorks,JSW Energy,Jindal Steel and Power,IVRCL Ltd,IVRCL,Havells India,Havells,Delta Corp,Coal India Ltd,Coal India

Date :  Jun 14, 2016, 08.01 AM IST

Document ID : 911

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open flat on Tuesday tracking muted trend seen in other Asian markets.     "Technically, the markets are still in a overall uptrend, the indices are still above most medium term support levels," Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha told ETMarkets.com.     "Candle charts have formed a Doji on the daily charts, which could signify a reversal to the bullish side. We would continue to hold a bullish outlook on the markets with a near term target of 8500 on the index," he added.    Here is a list of top fifteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Reliance Defence and Engineering:  Reliance Defence is accelerating work on an inherited order for naval offshore patrol vessels (NOPVs) and has assured the Indian Navy of supplying all the five craft by the end of 2017, bringing clarity to the largest warship building project awarded to the private sector.    Tata Power:  Tata Power may bring on board strategic investors to fund growth in its renewable energy business, its chief executive Anil Sardana said a day after the firm announced adeal to buy a little over one gigawatt of renewable assets from Welspun.    IIFL Holdings:  Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has notified that Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs)/Registered Foreign Portfolios Investors (RFPIs) can now invest from the existing 100 per cent up to 80 per cent of the paid up capital of IIFL Holdings.    Deepak Fertiliser:  Deepak Fertiliser on Monday said Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers has agreed to release about Rs 485 crore outstanding subsidy payment to the company. In a regulatory filing, Deepak Fertilisers informed that the Department of Fertilisers has been withholding its subsidy claims amounting to Rs 795 crore.    Coal India:  Coal India Ltd has announced that the Board of Directors of Western Coalfields Limited ("WCL"), the Company's subsidiary, has considered and approved the buyback of 7,42,750 fully paid equity shares of face value of Rs. 1,000 each.    Jubilant FoodWorks:  Food services major Jubilant FoodWorks plans to open 130-140 new Domino's Pizza outlets and around 20 new Dunkin' Donuts restaurants in the current fiscal to expand its footprints in the country.    United Breweries:  The Exchange had sought clarification from United Breweries (Holdings) Ltd with respect to news article appearing in Business Standard on June 12, 2016 titled "ED attaches UB Holdings, Mallya assets worth Rs. 1,411 crore.    Havells India:  Electrical equipment maker Havells India on Monday said it will increase its stake in Bangalore-based Promptec Renewable Energy Solutions up to 70 per cent for an undisclosed sum.    Sterlite technologies:  Billionaire Anil Agarwal's Sterlite Power Transmission aims to raise Rs 2,000- Rs 2,500 crore through infrastructure investment trust (InvITs) before December. Sterlite Power Transmission, which was recently carved out from Sterlite Technologies, plans to raise the funds through its subsidiary Sterlite Power Grid Ventures (SPGC).    Unitech:  The apex consumer commission has asked real estate major Unitech Ltd to pay over Rs 48 lakh to a Delhi resident for failing to hand over an apartment in its Greater Noida project even after a decade.    Satin Creditcare:  Satin Creditcare Network Ltd has informed BSE about intimation regarding allotment of preference shares of 2.5 crore with a face value of Rs 10 each.    KPIT Technologies:  Sparta Consulting Inc (Sparta), a 100% subsidiary of KPIT Technologies, was hired by Copart Inc (Copart), a US corporation, to design a replacement for its legacy Enterprise Resource Planning system.    Delta Corp:  Pleasure Cruise Company Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Delta Corp Limited, has been granted license by the Government of Goa to operate their vessel "M V Royale Flotel -Deltin Caravela" in the Mandovi River.    JSPL:  Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) is set to get debt recast under the Reserve Bank's 5/25 scheme post deal with JSW Energy, said a media report.    IVRCL:  IVRCL Ltd has allotted 6.46 lakh equity shares at a price of Rs 8.76 each to Bank of Nova Scotia. The Hyderabad-based company has informed BSE that the allotment is according to the Strategic Debt Restructure terms the company has with its lenders.    

