URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/mf-news/policybazaar-garners-rs-500-crore-of-assets-under-management/articleshow/52048175.cms

Title : PolicyBazaar garners Rs 500 crore of assets under management - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : personal finance,mutual funds,Market,invest,interest rate,insurance,Inflation,Business

Date :  Apr 30, 2016, 01.53 AM IST

Document ID : 886

Content:
  By Taslima Khan     NEW DELHI: The growth potential of online and mobile applicationbased distribution of mutual funds is fast attracting startups and investors.     Online insurance comparison and sales portal PolicyBazaar, which launched mutual funds on its platform about a month ago, has already garnered Rs 500 crore of assets under management.     "Mutual funds are the fastest growing area after insurance and loans for us," said PolicyBazaar's CEO Yashish Dahiya, who is targeting 20 million active users by end of 2020. The market size for mutual funds is estimated at nearly Rs 15 lakh crore (AMU). Right now, the share of online sales is not even 1% of this, which, along with the fact that people can start investing with smaller amounts of money, is making it the fastest growing area as per Dahiya.     Over the last one year, multiple startups in this area have seen significant growth while some who were offering other personal finance solutions have flipped their business models to get into mutual funds distribution.     The list includes Moneyview, which raised $8.5 million from marquee investors Accel partners, Tiger Global and Rabbit Capital; Scripbox, which raised Rs 16 crore from Accel partners and a group of angels; FundsIndia which raised $11million in Series C funds from Faering Capital, Inventus, and Fisdom which raised Rs 3.4 crore in January from a clutch of angel investors including Taxiforsure co-founders Raghunandan G and Aprameya Radhakrishna and Commonfloor's Sumit Jain. Startups offering online and app-based solutions to compare and purchase mutual funds are targeting a customer base of 150 to 200 million individuals with a bank account and a smartphone.     "Currently, the younger population is not very active with mutual fund investments, since the existing distribution channels are largely offline, which doesn't work very well with this population," said Puneet Agarwal, CEO at Moneyview.     "Also, most distributors have largely been chasing high networth individuals while ignoring the under-35 population which comprises over 65% of the working class."     The startup earlier offered money management solutions but a month ago it began selling mutual funds, starting with debt mutual funds which are safer than stock market based funds.     "That's better than keeping money in bank accounts, which gives 4-5% interest rate, lower than inflation rate. It's a great way for people to start investing," said Agarwal, who earlier this month partnered with ICICI Prudential to launch 'Green Account', which will enable customers to invest or withdraw funds from their account with a few taps on the Moneyview app, which crossed 3 million downloads in December 2015.     Fisdom, launched by former Bessemer Venture Partners India head Subramanya SV, offers an app-based solution to make an investment in a mutual fund in 30 seconds.     The platform recommend products based on the customers' investment goals, amount to be invested, and risk appetite, among other factors, while also going through a paper-less KYC process that requires them to upload photographs of their address and identity proofs.  

