URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/cabinet-secretary-headed-panel-holds-third-meet-to-shortlist-names-to-head-rbi/articleshow/53779098.cms

Title : Cabinet Secretary-headed panel holds third meet to shortlist names to head RBI - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : RBI,Raghuram Rajan,Narendra Modi,Governor,Finance minister,cabinet secretary

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 03.28 AM IST

Document ID : 691

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Below the radar of the speculations of the next RBI governor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's insistence to follow a rigorous process has got the Cabinet Secretary-headed selection panel to work overtime to complete process to recommend a panel of names to the Prime Minister and Finance Minister for the selection as the next RBI governor.     Government sources said that the Cabinet Secretary-headed panel held its latest meeting on Friday to prune down the list of potential candidates for the recommendation to the government. This is the third meeting of the committee, added the source.     Sources said that the committee will be making its recommendation of panel of names to the government soon for its final decision. In the first meeting, the committee is learnt to have considered as many as 50 potential candidates. The committee in its second meeting is learnt to have managed to whittle down the number of names to 30.     "Prime Minister is very clear that the process should not be bypassed. Selection will be a culmination of this process. The announcement will not be a last minute decision," confided a source briefed about the series of meeting of the Cabinet Secretary-chaired panel tasked with recommending the names to the government.     Sources, in this context, clarified that the final decision of the names will be taken up by the Prime Minister and Finance Minister.     "The names or panel of names by the Cabinet Secretary-chaired panel will be a recommendation to the government. They can always reconsider the recommendations," added the source. With incumbent Raghuram Rajan's term coming to its end early next month, the government has to announce his replacement very soon.     However, contrary to the speculation of various names, the Prime Minister has insisted for a rigorous process of filtering out the names for the consideration. Sources in this context asserted that any name announced by the government will be an outcome of the rigorous process of filtering.  

