URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/the-inside-story-neil-munn-on-moving-from-a-client-to-an-agency-side/articleshow/53723054.cms

Title : The inside story: Neil Munn on moving from a client to an agency side - The Economic Times



Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 05.13 AM IST

Document ID : 294

Content:
One hears of agency guys moving to the client side but not too many instances of the reverse trend. What made you shift from Unilever where you were handling Axe, to BBH?  I was very clear in my mind that I did not want to be a one company guy. (Though that's no reflection on Unilever where I worked 10 years.) I decided to move and I was pretty open with my then-boss. In big organisations like Unilever, at least 50% of the energy is focused on internal dynamics rather than market dynamics. We spend a lot of the time rallying the troops: I hate to say that but that is the reality. Thus, I was quite clear that I was not looking at joining another company like Procter or Nestle.  So how did BBH happen?  Around that time, three big senior jobs had come up in Unilever and I had this serendipitous conversation with Nigel Bogle (co-founder, BBH) where he mentioned about me being well-placed to take one of those jobs. I told him that I have been offered all three but I'm not taking any of them, since I was looking for a new challenge. Over a dinner-conversation, he offered me a job at BBH, an agency that I had hugely admired for its outstanding creative work. I was excited, also because the role would stretch my legs in getting into a start-up environment at an early stage. Thus, I joined Zag in 2006 and over the last 10 years I have evolved into running the business.  What were the big challenges in this shift?  The biggest change for me was to move from a multinational to a start-up, where the founder who owned the business, was also actively around. That was even bigger a change than moving from the client to the agency side. The intensity around a privately held business with founders at the forefront is a rather striking one. In a big organisation like Unilever with 300,000 people you are an important cog but the business will keep going if you get run over by a bus no matter how instrumental you may feel you are to the business. It will.   The biggest change for me was to move from a multinational to a start-up. (Image: BCCL)  You were at the helm during some of the best years of Axe. What was that like?  It is not for me to say they were the best years but we had an amazing ride. The brand was growing 20% every year, four years in a row. I had moved from food to personal care. In the first 50 days of taking charge, I visited the 10 top markets, and realised the team was missing one integral thing: confidence in setting the agenda. We had to run Axe with the tempo required to engage and delight teenage boys and hence a five year innovation cycle would be unlikely to work. That could work for some of the big detergent innovations. My belief was that as long as we are experts in the mating game and understand our target market we are going to make it work. We did and we had a great ride.  What do you think of the change in Axe positioning - from the expert in dating to a more inclusive positioning with the recent 'Find Your Magic' campaign?  I can understand the rationale behind doing it in terms of trying to broaden the franchise. (But) The brand has to hold on to its DNA. If one can reconcile those two, it would be a good outcome.  

