URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/ahammune-biosciences-and-jasper-concepts-are-latest-startups-to-get-3-year-tax-holiday/articleshow/53748014.cms

Title : Ahammune Biosciences and Jasper Concepts are latest startups to get 3-year tax holiday - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Jawaharlal Nehru

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 03.07 AM IST

Document ID : 729

Content:
   NEW DELHI: Pune-based Ahammune Biosciences and Bengaluru's Jasper Concepts are the latest startups to have been granted a three-year tax holiday by the government. The decision was taken in the third round of the inter-ministerial board's meeting earlier this month.     Founded in May 2016 by Parul Ganju, PhD in skin biology, and professor Krishnamurthy Natarajan of Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ahammune Biosciences is a drug discovery company focused on immune related skin disorders. "Our entire vision is to carry out discovery-oriented research and it can take up to 10 years in getting the drug to the market. For this long gestation period, a tax exemption on capital gains would be of great help," said Ganju.     The company has raised $1 million through angel investors and will go for another round of funding soon as it plans to set up its new lab and hire more employees. "We are working out a revenue generation model," said Ganju. Started in June this year, Jasper Concepts is involved in leather industry and provides services, including tanning and dressing of leather.     So far, only three companies have been approved by the government for the tax exemption. Jasper Concepts and Ahammune Biosciences have joined Kanpur-based Bhurak Technologies in the list of companies which made the final cut. Another company MicroGo LLP's application for the exemption has been deferred, and will be considered in the next meeting of the inter-ministerial board. Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) is also pushing for extending tax benefits under the programme to seven years from three now.     Only companies registered after April 2016 can apply for the tax benefits announced in the Start-up Action Plan in January this year. As many as 793 startups have applied for recognition so far under the Startup India programme, of which 223 have been successful.     DIPP is also trying to expedite the release of funds from the fund of funds set up for start-ups. Of the Rs 10,000 crore fund of funds set up for startups, Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) has sanctioned Rs 168 crore towards the corpus of six alternative investment funds.  

