URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//long-term-refinance-operation-fuels-rally-in-markets-across-asset-classes/articleshow/12038313.cms

Title : 'Long-term refinance operation' fuels rally in markets across asset classes - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : LTRO,liquidity,foreign institutional investor,European Central Bank,Euro debt crisis,domestic stock markets

Date :  Feb 26, 2012, 03.05 AM IST

Document ID : 428

Content:
      The wave of liquidity into the domestic stock markets began somewhere towards the end of December 2011. Initially it was a trickle. Soon, the flow increased and the markets were flooded with approximately Rs 22,000 crores of foreign institutional investor (FII) funds in 2012. This influx of liquidity has brought about a 360 degree change in the outlook for the stock markets.             Market participants, who were very pessimistic on the direction of the markets, were forced to change their view.         LTRO        The origin of the current bout of liquidity is in Europe, precisely in the latest measures adopted by the European Central Bank (ECB) to free up the European banking system. Most European banks were leveraged up to 30-40 times. Most banks' own funds were locked up in distressed sovereign debt. The banking system was almost frozen due to lack of liquidity and there was an urgent need to infuse liquidity.             The ECB, hence, came up with a three-year long-term refinance operation (LTRO) programme , whereby it will lend at pre-determined low interest rates to all banks approaching it against collaterals.             The lending rates are subject to change if the ECB's benchmark fund rates increase during the three-year term. The borrowing facility is of three-year duration, with banks having the option of repaying after a year, hence freeing up the collateral held against the borrowings.             The ECB is willing to take even poor quality distressed debt held by banks as collateral. The collaterals are marked-to-market and the banks have to give additional collaterals if the values of existing ones decline sharply.         Objectives of LTRO        The LTRO initiated by the ECB has many objectives. The ECB hopes, the banks with the new funds made available to them, will go ahead and buy their own countries' sovereign debts. The simple carry trade of buying government bonds of distressed nations and borrowing against them from the ECB at a lower rate will boost margins for banks.             Secondly, it makes it easier for distressed nations to get funding in the commercial financial markets. It will flatten the yield curve on government borrowings. Banks went forward aggressively to buy up government securities to use at the ECB's LTRO auction. In the first tranche of LTRO conducted on December 23, 2011, the ECB lent 464 billion Euros.          Funds flow        The question then arises, what will the banks do with the funds they borrow. The ECB is hopeful the loans will spur lending to businesses and households. If the banks buy government debt, it will be an indirect way of initiating quantitative easing.             However, the banks may not necessarily use the euros to buy government debt. They may not even lend more. They may want to hold the cash on their balance sheets, as the pressure to lessen leverage will reduce as they have 720 billion euros of debt to roll-over in 2012.             The two-month rally since the beginning of 2012 in all asset classes points to the fact that there has been a spill-over effect in stocks and commodities. The huge expansion in eligible collaterals opens the possibility of another large LTRO on February 29.             This means the expansion in the ECB's balance sheet since the Lehman crisis will be greater than the expansion of the US Fed. This gives an indication that the rally in the stock markets may last longer.         Good time for investors        The ECB's LTROs have succeeded in their objectives by breaking the negative spiral of rising risk aversion. The forced selling in equity has stopped. Cheap money has built the confidence to invest in risky asset classes. The rally, therefore, may last for sometime.             However, while the flow of liquidity can buy time, the fundamental realities will come to the fore in due course. So, investors should make hay while the sun shines, keeping an umbrella handy.    

