URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/entrepreneurship/meet-the-singer-who-also-set-up-bigbasket/articleshow/53734769.cms

Title : Meet the singer who also set up BigBasket - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : The Thunk,stills,Simon & Garfunkel,Nash & Young (CSNY),Kishore Kumar,Hari menon,Eagles,Crosby,BigBasket.com

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 10.32 AM IST

Document ID : 711

Content:
  BENGALURU: The man who gave India one of its earliest online grocery stores is a passionate singer and even plays the guitar. Having steered BigBasket to among the top players in the segment, he is now dreaming of turning this childhood hobby into a retirement plan.     "I curse myself for not becoming a professional singer," said Hari Menon, who set up BigBasket in 2011. "Once I am done and dusted with BigBasket.com, I will take up singing." The self-taught singer gravitated towards Kishore Kumar's songs like "Raat Kali" (from the film 'Buddha Mil Gaya') during his growing years in Bandra East (Mumbai).     By the time Menon turned 14, he was taking guitar lessons. A few years later, he was doing the vocals and playing the guitar for his rock band, 'The Thunk', at BITS Pilani. The band played at cultural festivals and music clubs. "Even today we meet once a year at a holiday destination to jam with our instruments. Last we played was for the BITS Pilani batch-reunion," said Menon, whose favourites are Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young (CSNY), Simon & Garfunkel, and Eagles.     Recently, Menon discovered a cassette of 'The Thunk' at a friend's house in Delhi. The cassette did not play, but it whetted Menon's desire to get back to music. "We will reunite by 2020 and start playing professionally," he said. The 54-year-old entrepreneur today jams with his three sons at his Kamanahalli home. "Two play the guitar. My youngest son plays the drums, my eldest son and I sing. We have all the instruments at home and often sing 'Hotel California' (The Thunk favourite)," said Menon, who is looking forward to the next fam-jam this August, when his 20-something sons return from college abroad. But when the wish to sing solo surfaces, Menon takes to karaoke.     "Every weekend, I connect my karaoke set to the TV and sing Kishore Kumar's songs for three hours," he said, adding that he, at times, even carries his karaoke set to gatherings where he entertains guests with classic tracks. "Singing puts my soul in complete peace," he said. Not many know that the business bigwig likes to work with music on in his office cabin. "I typically shut the door of my cabin and listen to my favourite songs while working...especially during data-crunching," said Menon.     Explaining the need and importance of pursuing a hobby. My wife, a Mohiniyattam dancer, runs a school in Whitefield. But the school's responsibility does not stop her from performing professionally three times every year. What's there in life if you do not have a hobby," he said.     And for those who wish to catch a glimpse of the man at his musical best, he often takes to the mike at Sherlock's Pub in the city.  

