URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/mapping-the-market-when-gst-wave-fizzled-out-unlikely-gainers-saved-the-day/articleshow/53541874.cms

Title : Mapping the market: When GST wave fizzled out, unlikely gainers saved the day - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,tata steel nalco,Tata Steel,Tata Motors,suzuki,stocks,Shares,Sensex,Punj Lloyd,Open Interest,nifty,News,New Delhi,new,Maruti Suzuki,markets,Market,Land Rover,jlr shares of tata motors,Jindal Steel,Jaguar Land Rover,Jaguar,India,in,ICICI bank,Godrej Industries,Godrej,finance,end,Dalal Street,Container Corporation,China,car,Cadila Healthcare,Bajaj Finance,Bajaj,Amara Raja Batteries

Date :  Aug 04, 2016, 04.51 PM IST

Document ID : 808

Content:
  NEW DELHI: A great shoddy treat (GST) was on offer on Dalal Street on Thursday, as the historic day turned out to be a pretty lame one.    markets being markets when good news is factored in, traders find a way out to walk to the bank through the back door with their smiles as wide as the Gateway of India.     That caused the BSE Sensex end with marginal gains of 16 points while the 50-share Nifty50 closed at 8,551, up a mere 6 points thanks to some last minute buying.     That said, let's take a look at the day's big market movers.    Tata Motors rallied on JLR: Shares of Tata Motors defied all and sundry to rally over 4.60 per cent as Jaguar Land Rover posted strong US July sales despite weakness in overall car sales in the US. JLR's July sales grew 51.5 per cent, exceeding analyst expectations.       Steel counters were abuzz:  The steel counter was abuzz all through the session as the steel ministry is likely to push forth with the extension of minimum import price on cold steel rolls from China. The BSE Metal index gained 1.53 per cent while individual counters such as Tata Steel, Nalco and Jindal Steel surged up to 5 per cent.       Punj Lloyd hits the roof:  Punj Lloyd shares hit the roof during the session after the company decided to sell off its UK-based arm for $2 million. The stock rose as much as 7.61 per cent during the session before closing 4.60 per cent higher at Rs 20.50.       Most active stocks:  The counter of ICICI Bank was the most active one in trade as the stock gained 0.23 per cent. It was followed by Tata Motors, which ended as the top gainer in the Sensex pack with a 4.6 per cent jump. The other most active securities included Maruti Suzuki (up 0.41 per cent), SBI (down 0.18 per cent) and Bajaj Finance (up 1 per cent).       Spurt in open interest: Amara Raja Batteries saw the biggest spurt in open interest in the F&O; segment with a 44.62 per cent jump in OI. Bank Nifty saw a 39.76 per cent spurt in OI while it was up 37.43 per cent for Container Corporation. Other big gainers in terms of OI included Cadila Healthcare (36.81 per cent), Godrej Industries (26.65 per cent) and Arvind (19.29 per cent).     

