URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/move-over-the-wolves-of-wall-street-high-profile-wealthy-startuppers-are-the-new-bad-guys-of-corporate-world/articleshow/53502001.cms

Title : Move over, the Wolves of Wall Street! High-profile & wealthy startuppers are the new bad guys of corporate world - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wall Street,silicon valley,Money Machine,Mayor Ed Lee,Antonio Garcia Martínez

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 05.15 PM IST

Document ID : 308

Content:
 High-profile & wealthy startuppers, investors, & tech-bros of Silicon Valley, & their brand of excess in business and life, have replaced the wolves of Wall Street as the corporate world's bad guys. Here are 4 reasons why that happened.  The office as a theme park "  The offices bear a striking resemblance to the Montessori preschool that my kids attended: lots of bright basic colors, plenty of toys, and a nap room with a hammock and soothing palm tree murals on the wall. The office-as-playground trend was made famous by Google and has spread like an infection across the tech industry. Work can't just be work; work has to be fun," wrote Dan Lyons, a writer for the HBO series Silicon Valley, in his book 'Disrupted: My Misadventure in the Start-up Bubble'.     'Fun' usually translates to ping-pong tables, videogames, M&M; fountains, graffiti walls, barbers, masseurs, and dry-cleaning services on call. Sleep pods and free gourmet grub. Trampoline Dodgeball Thursdays. Friday Happy Hour. Cold beer in open-layout offices. Some spaces are even designed to look like the Oval Office (like software code repository, GitHub's digs). Lyon's writes: "That's what investors want to see: a bunch of young people, having a blast, talking about changing the world. It sells." Nothing says fun like vomit and thongs in showers that double up as "sex-cabins" and wasted twenty-somethings setting ablaze the janitor's cart. All true stories, apparently.    Creation of cult-like cultures and worship  'We're not just selling a product or service. We're changing the world'. Love the company and pledge allegiance to its founding fathers. Everything contributes to building a cult-like atmosphere. The company's code and mission statement are imprinted on fresh minds at initiation. Comically grandiose titles are given to founders, employees, and even conference rooms. For instance 'Tahrir Square', 'Awesomeness' and 'Humility'. How about Irony? Every cult has a distinctive piece of clothing. Here it's the nonconformist look, "creative casuals", tshirts, and hoodies. When new employees join Facebook they are baptised and the day of joining is called 'Faceversary'. The day of their departure from Menlo Park is classified as their "death". Employees at HubSpot call themselves "superstars with superpowers". HubSpotters don't just quit or get fired, they "graduate".     In his expose titled Chaos Monkeys: Inside the Silicon Valley Money Machine, entrepreneur and ex-Facebooker Antonio Garcia Martinez, writes about the social network's 'The Sec', an internal security division to monitor employees' movements and a dress-code for female employees so they don't distract their male counterparts. He paints the tech industry as a cult run mafia-style by 'sociopaths in hoodies'. Martinez told Recode, "The Silicon Valley vibe is like democracy, or religion: If everyone believes in it, it sort of becomes true."      Picture: BCCL   The rise of "boy kings" and entitled "tech-bros"  "I shouldn't have to see the pain, struggle, and despair of homeless people to and from my way to work every day," wrote entrepreneur and developer Justin Keller in an open letter to San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee and Police Chief Greg Suhr, earlier this year. He got plenty "Kudos" for the letter and was shamed by netizens. But Keller unwittingly helped reveal a disturbing mindset: as a wealth-creator, a provider to the masses of technology-enabled conveniences, life-altering apps, inventions and whatnot, and as a visionary making the world a better place, it's my God-given right not be inconvenienced in any way, shape or form. For the Uber-class these inconveniences could be anything: too much foam in the cappuccino, poor people, or criticism of Silicon Valley-bred elitism.     Here's tech luminary Tom Perkins' response to the Wall Street Journal on such criticism; "Writing from the epicenter of progressive thought, San Francisco, I would call attention to the parallels of fascist Nazi Germany to its war on its 'one percent,' namely its Jews, to the progressive war on the American one percent, namely the 'rich.'" The foolish remark led to the venture capital firm he founded disassociating with Perkins and superstars of the VC community like Marc Andreessen expressing concern over such callous comments. Interestingly, earlier this year Andreessen found himself embroiled in the India - Facebook Free Basics controversy when he tweeted: "Anticolonialism has been economically catastrophic for the Indian people for decades. Why stop now?" He later apologised. Making matters worse are tech czars circumventing and bending rules and regulations for tax benefits. And their conspicuous excesses like lavish weddings with fantastical themes in the Big Sur. Of course that would barely turn a head in India's OTT wedding market. But when investor and Facebook billionaire Sean Parker's $10 million Lord of the Rings meets Game of Thrones theme wedding required the creation of a limited liability corporation called Neraida to run the event, heads turned. He ended up paying $1 million for not procuring the proper permits and another $1.5 million in forest donations for "eco-trashing".    'Too female to be a programmer'  Nina Burleigh wrote in Newsweek: "A combination of that very traditional Wall Street wolf-ism among Northern California's venture capital boys' club and the socially stunted boy-men that the money men like to finance has created a particularly toxic atmosphere for women in Silicon Valley." The "savagely misogynistic" culture has disastrous consequences for women who are anyway navigating hostile environments. Some of them are: Fewer privileges and lower wages. Male investors who hit on female entrepreneurs over her pitch deck. Then there's "you're too pretty to be a coder". Or perhaps, just "too female". Women are denied entry to the "boys' club", unless of course they become "one of the guys". Female entrepreneurs in financing rounds are often advised by male VCs to look to the "girls' club" for investments. Working mothers have to deal with an unrelenting line of questioning doubting their ability to handle careers and families. RedRover's founder Kathryn Tucker was once told by a male investor, "I don't like the way women think. They haven't mastered linear thinking."     A woman who tweets complaints about sexist jokes made at the office gets fired and branded as 'aggressive' and 'trouble maker'. Julie Horvath, a programmer, was called the raging "QUEEN" of GitHub. That was the icing on the trauma she had to endure at the company, which, according to reports, ranged from a total lack of respect and lecherous male colleagues to intimidation by the founder and his wife, who was not an employee. When Twitter announced its IPO it was with an all-male board. After widespread criticism Twitter appointed a woman to the board. These are just a few examples of institutionalised discrimination and abuse.     It's not all bad of course. There are tales from the Valley that give the affected hope. But in order to make these the worldwide standard rather than exception, we must first understand why the people tinkering in their garages to make the next century better than the last, people who are meant to set an example for new generations of inventors and leaders, have become wolves in innocuous hoodies.    

