URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/markets-will-go-up-for-next-2-years-pick-3-5-winners-and-remain-invested-sanjay-dutt-quantum-securities/articleshow/53752535.cms

Title : Markets will go up for next 2 years, pick 3-5 winners and remain invested: Sanjay Dutt, Quantum Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,US,Unitech,technology,TCS,stocks,State Bank Of India,So,Retail,place,people,NPA,new,mean,Maruti Suzuki,markets,Market,liquidity,Infosys,India,in,Hero MotoCorp,global markets,et now,ET,end,earnings,Business,Brexit,autos,Auto

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 12.13 PM IST

Document ID : 627

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Sanjay Dutt, Director, Quantum Securities, says barring technology, India will be going to go through a good bull phase over the next few years . Edited excerpts        ET Now: Fantastic to have you back long time no see. In a bull market you should be coming out more often.         Sanjay Dutt:    I do not need to because no one cares about television or bull market, they need to just ride the trend and make money. It is only the bear market we need the television to really worry about your losses.        ET Now: Bull market is also about all about guidance and participation. I mean in this bull market, if you bought JP Associates and the Unitech, you are still not making money. So, we look forward to guidance because I remember a couple of months ago you went on record and said buy PSU banks. It looked like a laughable advice but those who have executed that advice, are very happy today.         Sanjay Dutt:    Yes, I was quite scared at that point of time but I knew that State Bank of India was not going to shut down or was not going to go bust when the prices were around Rs 150-160. More so, when Brexit happened, everything collapsed as if on an indefinite shutdown. Also talking to the bankers, talking to the industry, one had early signs that in the worst of the NPAs were getting behind us. The NPA issue was not going to end overnight but the important issue was that it was being addressed, every banker was totally in control. In fact, 24x7 all senior bankers were trying to sort out every possible account whether restructuring, whether getting into 5/25 or whatever. So it was a clear sign that the banks are going to outperform in the years ahead, particularly the PSU banks and we have already seen that happening in the short term and I think there is still a long way to go.        ET Now: Is it time to book profits right now? What would continue this rally because a review of all the quarterly numbers show that barring SBI, there has been much disappointment so far.         Sanjay Dutt:    I really do not look QSQT as such because it just clouds your investment horizon. You will end up selling good stocks just because one quarter went bad. But if you got a secular story, if you got into a right stock at the right time, you know you are just going to ride it. You just need to find three or five winners in the market and just remain invested in them, then having to keep shuffling based on quarterly numbers.     I am not worried about the companies I am invested in even if they have probably shown a bad quarter for whatever reason. So, I would not advice people to book profits if they invested in good companies even now. Quarterly numbers are over and no triggers left or whatever that may be all that is only meant for traders who keep putting money into the market every week, 10 days. Every day it is not meant for investors.        ET Now: Are you fully invested in this market because you have always been a contra investor?         Sanjay Dutt:    I am fully invested in the market and I firmly believe that this is just the beginning of the big show. In fact, this morning when I was trying to look at some of the charts I saw a very pristine chart and that was the 10-year chart of emerging markets which is a complete slide down the cliff and what I saw now is that there is a definite breakout that is happening out of the trend line so what we probably are going to see across-the-board move that is going to happen across emerging markets.     We have already seen quite a bit of it happening in the last few months. So, it is not only India, it is the flows that the emerging markets has contributed to what we have seen and not necessarily the quarterly numbers and not necessarily local factors. So this long sloping line that the emerging markets had formed on the long-term charts, there is a breakout happening in the price action there now.     I think that is giving us a clear signal that emerging markets are now going to outperform in the years to come. We have seen the Dow and all other western markets hitting new highs now is a turn of key emerging markets and there is no other emerging markets that stands out better in their global universe but India right now. So barring correction here and there of 200-300 points in the Nifty, for the next 24 odd months, we are in for good times and the market will go much higher.        ET Now: I buy your argument that this rally is a lot more global and global money is coming in. It has given a lot of confidence to people to buy into solid commentaries, solid earnings delivery by the mid-sized companies as well. I mean, the last 15 days have all been what the non-index largecaps and the larger midcaps have done and the stocks have gone up 20-25%. What has stood out for you? I mean speciality chemicals, great quarter. Auto components, great quarter. Certain niche companies, great quarter. What has stood out for you this time?         Sanjay Dutt:    I think what is standing out for me this time are good managements, manageable balance sheets irrespective of the sector because India is going to go through a good bull phase over the next few years; every possible sector, barring of course sectors which have structural issues like technology.     You just got to look at bottom up, look at companies within every possible sector whether it is consumer discretionary, whether it is the cylical, cement, steel, etc. You just got to get into good balance sheets, good managements. So I think the only mantra that is going to make you money is top class managements who manage to ride out this five-seven years of storm that we have been through in India and across the world and more so in India because of the banking problems, slowdown, monsoon, everything else put together.     If you have ridden that out, you survive that, you are going to make really tonnes of money as a company as a management. So therefore, you are going to do your hard work, read last three years annual reports and you will find companies across sectors. I can name companies in steel. I can name companies in consumer discretionary. I can name companies in auto. So I cannot really think of a sectoral theme that is going probably ride the massive bull market that is ahead. So it is just that you need to get into the right stories.        ET Now: What about the themes that have been supportive of that thesis thus far in the consumer names and also the defensive names and IT for that matter. In fact, let us touch upon IT before anything else, before talking about consumption as a story and this overhang that comes in with the whole outsourcing model kind of being relooked at and the western world is going through trouble if they are not being able to make their growth marks, growth targets, budgets will be cut down at various corporate level activity, business confidence is going to slow down. In that light, do you think that Indian IT can hold ground?          Sanjay Dutt:    I think like I said technology has got a structural problem to live for a while. They will have to adjust to the new realities and, in fact, it is becoming really impossible for them to adjust because they wake up from one and they are hit by another. They were barely managing to handle the slowdown and they got hit by this Brexit nonsense and the uncertainty coming out of it. The problem that arises is with their consumers, with their customers. As soon as any uncertain event hits the global markets like Brexit, the customers at their level become ultra conservative and adopt aggressive cost cutting or start delaying spending and that is the major problem that IT faces from global consumers, global customers.     Therefore, it automatically throws their entire forecast out of gear. So, whether it is headcounts and everything else, the bench and that is actually what we saw in the case of Infosys happening just three-four days back. So is that the kind of uncertainty I as an investor want to live with while investing in Infosys or TCS? No, I do not think so because there are enough opportunities elsewhere.     I am not saying that technology or IT as a theme or an investment opportunity is over and done with, I think it has got problems that need to sort out. The prices need to adjust. In some cases they have adjusted but I think in most cases, they have not adjusted. So the uncertainty which is obviously the worst enemy for the investor is what is playing out there. So what I would advice is that be underweight IT, just be very cautious of what you hold, only hold top quality names that too in limited quantities. Let this storm play out. I think that it is a very hazy situation there.        ET Now: Typically markets top out when there is crowding, when there is a mania, when there is irrational exuberance and the stock prices the go haywire. Nobody thinks about valuations, it is all about participation, if I look at the screen and if do some historical averaging here, we are not there yet. This means the best of the absolute gains are yet to come. We maybe in a strong undercurrent but this is not like a blowout market where stocks are flying around irrespective of the underlying turf?         Sanjay Dutt:    Yes, obviously you are right. We are still not into that frenzy stage, we are still not into that maniac bull market where people just get tips in the morning and go and buy and they are 10% richer in the evening or they are 20% richer the next morning. What I am noticing this time is anyone who is putting money is doing it very cautiously. He is putting it by doing his homework. So it is too early a stage to say that one is kind of reaching that stage or one has got anywhere near that stage. I do not think that stage is going to come very soon. It is still a long way and primarily because at the retail level and at the private client group and at the high net-worth individual level liquidity is still not easy and we do not have private client group, HNIs which we saw earlier who used to have Rs 20-30 core to easily bet on one or two stocks.     Liquidity within the system, banking as well as otherwise or consumption for use-- for discretionary use is still limited in the hands of the private client group and the so called semi operator in the common street parlance. That is what really leads to the euphoria and leads to that crazy phase. Till that liquidity comes into the market, I do not think we will reach that phase. So that is a long way off. Whatever money is being invested right now, is being invested very sensibly by the retail and the private client group. So I think that is a sensible thing. They will make money and they will see everything is panning out in the right direction.         ET Now: One of the crowded trades as we all know is that consumption trade so to speak has played out in different pockets, whether it is financial service, whether it is staples, whether it is durables. What is coming to mind recently has been the outperformance that autos have shown and as a derivative of that auto ancillaries, do you see this as a better value proposition than some of the high priced stocks in consumer staples?         Sanjay Dutt:    Yes, I think one cannot say really frenzy has played out. Typically in a bull market you go through these phases of two-three months of over valuation, you wait for fundamentals to catch up or you wait for stock prices to correct again and you take the next leg up. So I think we are all going through that because we have seen the run up primarily coming on account of expectation of a very good monsoon. That run-up started somewhere around April, May because monsoon forecasts were very positive, now they have played out so now probably the prices will correct because fundamentals have not caught up as yet or you may see a phase of consolidation with fundamentals catching up in the next quarter or two and then you see the next leg up.      So this kind of rotational exercise, this kind of adjustment will go on but certain pockets may not be able to keep up with this pattern because they may just have got stretched already. Therefore they may take more than a quarter or two and prices may just fall off the cliff or may just remain where they are for a year or two. But essentially good quality companies like Maruti Suzuki, Hero Motocorp will continue to play out that story. There is still potential in them. You will get corrections, you will get opportunities to buy at the right prices but obviously those kind of companies can only give you that 15-20% return per annum, they cannot give you that 2x, 3x, 5x return.      Linked to that, you correctly said auto ancillaries obviously are a proxy to that or a derivative to that so they also have this phase. But on balance I think there is still tremendous potential in the sector, the consumption story is going to play out, is playing out right now in front of us. As easy credit availability, cheaper credit will fall in place in the market in the next year or two there will be definitely a better pickup in demand.  

