URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/cool-gadgets-to-gift-your-sister-this-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/53736497.cms

Title : Cool gadgets to gift your sister this Raksha Bandhan - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : YES,Xiaomi,Women,Rakhi,Parties,Oasis,Nikon,new,Mi,iPad,in,Huawei,Fitbit,Canon,brands

Date : Aug 17, 2016, 12.44 PM IST

Document ID : 398

Content:
  With Raksha Bandhan just around the corner, brothers all around the country might be thinking hard about what to gift their sisters.     Not a problem, as we're here to help. Here are 10 cool gadgets that will make perfect gifting items for sisters and make this Raksha Bandhan even more memorable for them.    Smartwatches   Smartwatches are equipped with numerous useful features such as fitness tracking and the ability to sync with smartphones to make keeping up with notifications easy. There are numerous smartwatches available across all price segments.    Smartphones   It is very unlikely that your sister doesn't have a smartphone. But just in case she's been planning to buy a new device, you can get her one. If you're on a tight budget, consider buying the recently launched Xiaomi Redmi 3S Prime, which is available at a price of Rs 8,999.    If you can spend quite a bit, the all-metal Oneplus 3 will make a great buy at Rs 27,999. Then of course, there are the iPhones and Galaxies as well.    Headphones   If your sister is movie and music buff, a pair of headphones is one of the best things you can gift her on this Raksha Bandhan. Bose's range starts at Rs 9,512, and you can get similarly priced items from reputed names like Sennheiser and Klipsch. If you can't really spend that much, brands like Skullcandy and Audio Technica have some really good products as well.    Tablets   Tablets are perfect for digital content consumption, including everything from watching movies to browsing the web. While the newly-launched iPad Pro (9.7-inch), starting Rs 49,900 is the ultimate option in this category, Lenovo's Yoga Tab 3 and Xiaomi's Mi Pad are worthy options as well.    Digital cameras   Do you see a budding photographer in your sister? Then gift her a digital camera. From basic point-and-shoot cameras to top-of-the-line DSLRs, the choice is really endless. Brands like Canon, Nikon and Sony have quite a few offerings that are worth considering.    Fitness bands   Due to the hustle and bustle of daily lives, it's become really tough to keep tabs on one's health. Thankfully, fitness bands make it easy. And if your sister is a fitness freak, a fitness band would be a perfect gifting option this Raksha Bandhan. Fitbit offers quite a nice range of fitness trackers, starting at Rs 19,990. Other options worth looking at include Jawbone's Up series or even Xiaomi's Mi Band.    Bluetooth speakers   If your sister likes to organize parties, a Bluetooth speaker might just be what she needs to make that party rock. Bluetooth speakers easily pair up with smartphones (and other devices), and make listening to music anytime and anywhere a hassle-free affair. You can go for the waterproof UE Roll, priced at Rs 8,495. Altec Lansing's Life Jacket 2 is also a good option.    E-readers   Books are (and always will be) a great gifting option, not just for Raksha Bandhan, but for any occasion. If your sister is a bookworm, an E-reader is something she is going to love. Among the many benefits of E-readers are long battery backup, glare-free displays and the ability to carry hundreds of books at a time.     Amazon's Kindle range has basically become synonymous with e-readers, with the cheapest variant starting at Rs 5,999. If money isn't a constraint, the Kindle Oasis, priced at Rs 24,999, is undoubtedly the best e-reader you can get for your sister.    Powerbanks   Powerbanks are something of a must-have these days, given how easily our devices run out of juice. If you plan on gifting one to your sister, there are numerous options (having varying capacities, designs and prices) available from brands like Sony, Xiaomi and Huawei that you can look at.    Smart jewellery   Almost all ladies love jewellery, and it's quite certain that your sister is no exception. But in today's technology-heavy world, jewellery has become smarter and can help in keeping women safe as well.    Yes, you read that correctly. 'Smart jewellery' is a great gifting option you can go for. Safer Smart Jewellery company offers pendants with integrated Bluetooth connectivity. These easily sync with smartphones and are designed to send alerts to contacts in emergency situations. Price starts at Rs 1,500.  

