URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/Urjit-Patel-Raghuram-Rajan-on-same-page-on-inflation-so-rate-cut-may-be-distant-dream/articleshow/53790402.cms

Title : Urjit Patel, Raghuram Rajan on same page on inflation, so rate cut may be distant dream - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : sundayET,Retail,new,monetary policy,Inflation,India,Food

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.13 AM IST

Document ID : 979

Content:
  MUMBAI: Urjit Patel's appointment signals continuity in monetary policy as the new governor is also the author of the report that made the shift to a new inflation targeting regime in India.     It was the committee headed by deputy governor Urjit Patel that recommended the 2% to 6% inflation target range and also suggested that interest rate decisions should be taken by a group of members rather than left to the sole discretion of the RBI governor.     Economists said Patel's appointment also signals that the government wants the central bank to continue keeping inflation on a tight leash and did not want to experiment with a new face from outside the central bank. "Patel's views on inflation targeting and fiscal policy are the same as that of the incumbent governor Raghuram Rajan so we should expect some continuity. However, this also means that any immediate expectations of a rate cut have faded away though there is no change in the 2% to 6% target which was notified by the government," said Anubhuti Sahay, chief India economist at Standard Chartered.     In June the government formally notified the monetary policy committee (MPC), which shifts the responsibility of setting interest rates to a six-member committee, including the governor, with the governor getting a casting vote in case of a tie. Three members of the committee will be from the RBI while three others will be appointed by the government. Those appointments are yet to be made.     Sahay said any further rate cut is unlikely in the present circumstances but things could change in the next few months. "We do not expect any further cuts because we are waiting for clarity on monsoon and impact of government salaries which were implemented in August. But we expect food prices to moderate on expectations of a good monsoon and if oil prices ease to average $45 per barrel this year, there is a chance of another 25 basis points rate cut," Sahay said. Retail inflation rose above 6% in July, a 23-month high, mainly due to higher food prices, latest data shows.  

