URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//pre-wedding-photo-shoot-is-the-in-thing-in-koramangala/articleshow/51580258.cms

Title : Pre-wedding photo shoot is the in-thing in Koramangala - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : wedding season,UrbanClap,Olivio,LocalOye,Koramangala,Bollywood,Bengaluru

Date :  Mar 28, 2016, 10.50 AM IST

Document ID : 408

Content:
 By Medha Gupta    KORAMANGALA: Wedding season is here! What comes to our mind when we think of a fat Indian wedding? Lights, music, exquisitely decorated homes, beautifully dressed people dancing to the tunes of Bollywood numbers and lots of food to eat. Weddings are a life time event and people want to make it as beautiful and memorable as possible.     Photography has always been an integral part of the wedding preparation, as to make it more memorable with the stills of the not only the main occasion but also the ceremonies attached with the wedding like mehendi, sangeet, haldi. Etc.     The latest addition to this trend in the metro cities is the pre-wedding photoshoots, that also help couples know each other well in arrange marriages. KORAMANGALA of Bengaluru, which boasts of its corporate demographics has seen a sudden spurt in this trend in last few years.     Koramangala is also the locality of big-fat-Indian-weddings doers, and hence they go beyond conventional wedding photography and demand wedding pictures in unique or western style including pre and post wedding shoots, told Olivio, a photographer based in HSR. Olivio has been doing photography for last 10 years, but turned it into a full time profession only two years ago, kicking his corporate life off to turn his hobby into a business.     He specialises in wedding, theatre and portfolio photography, which are considered as the rising market these days in and around Koramangala.     New online platforms like Urbanclap, Localoye etc which have made these services much viable and accessible are also raking the moolah this season.     Urbanclap for example provides pre-wedding photography in all budget ranges. To know the estimated cost, all you have to do is to put up few details as preferred date, your location and when you are looking to have the shoot. There after the platform sends the detailed profiles and reviews of photographers, offering pre-wedding photoshoot in your area, with whom you can also chat on our mobile app.     Increasing demand of such photography and profit associated with it, had attracted Olivio to make it full time job who turned it into a full time profession only three-four years ago, kicking his corporate life off to turn his hobby into a business. Now, He specialises in wedding, theatre and portfolio photography, which are considered as the rising market these days in and around Koramangala.     There is a lot of demand of wedding photographers in Koramangala, as the denizens do not want typical old-fashioned wedding album says a photographer. While these shoots cost from as much as Rs 10, 000 to Rs 5 lakh, people want to make most of it with their own addition choices to this.    

