URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/which-itr-form-to-pick-when-you-switch-from-being-employee-to-entrepreneur/articleshow/53295829.cms

Title : Which ITR form to pick when you switch from being employee to entrepreneur - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tax Filing,ITR forms,ITR 5,ITR 4S,ITR,incometax return,Income-Tax Act,Income Tax,EPF

Date : Jul 20, 2016, 10.14 AM IST

Document ID : 504

Content:
  BENGALURU: If you are an individual, you know you have to file either Form ITR 1 or ITR 2. If you have a business, you know it is either ITR 3, 4 or 4S that you have to choose from.     However what if you are in a transition?You have just quit your job and started working on a prototype for your startup.Which income-tax return form is the right one for you?     Should you just collect your Form 16 from your ex-employer and declare your salary income file in ITR 1 or do you need to file ITR 4, even if the business may not have been incorporated? Your 'business' has no employees yet, just friends trying to develop an app and doubling their drawing room as a temporary office. The startup capital (also called Bengaluru) is filled with such cases and with the tax-filing deadline just days away, many of these entrepreneurs are grappling with such tax linked dilemmas.    Since cutting cost is a priority at this stage, here is how to avoid paying a hefty fee to the chartered accountant and D-I-Y your tax returns.        Also Read:    Everything you need to know about filing your tax return    Choose Your ITR Form   Start by downloading the correct form which will depend on how you are running the show. Even if you have not registered the startup or raised any capital yet and just using your savings to run the show, it is important that you file an ITR 4 meant for business and professionals.     This is important so that you can register and have a record of your initial capital investments with the tax department. This will be true even for cases where the prototype, say an app, is ready but is not generating any revenue.     This is common in initial stages. Many tend to make the mistake of showing lack of revenue as a loss in the return form, when they should be capitalised in the balance sheet of ITR 4. "Any expenses prior to revenue generation must be capitalised as an asset as per the I-T Act," says Archit Gupta, CEO, ClearTax.in. Once the business starts generating income, only then these expenses be adjusted from the revenue and claimed as loss.     If your business is making profits already, you can file the much-simpler ITR 4S provided your business' gross receipts or turnover is not more than Rs 1 crore (Rs 2 crore from FY2016-17). Plus, it should not be registered as a company. The advantage of choosing ITR 4S is that there is no need to maintain books, profit & loss statements or to conduct audits. You don't have to pay advance tax either.     However, your tax liability would be calculated on the basis of 'presumed business income', irrespective of what your actual income may be. Section 44AD of the Income-Tax Act says under the presumptive method, the net income is estimated to be 8% of gross receipts for businesses. So, if you have losses or have profits less than the presumptive rate, you should still file the lengthier ITR Form 4.     Right now, the option is open only to businesses. However, next year on, even freelancers earning less than Rs 50 lakh a year will be able to file ITR 4S. Even partners who have not formally registered their venture can continue to file separate returns under ITR 4 as individuals.     If you have incorporated the startup -- as a partnership firm (ITR 5) or as a company (ITR 6) -- and it has a separate legal identity, a separate return has to be filed too. You will then have to file as an individual again. Choose ITR 1 if you have started paying yourself a salary and do not have more than one property. You will have to file ITR 2A if you own more than one house and ITR 2 if you have capital gains or income or property outside India. ITR 3 is for those startups partners whose business is registered as an LLP.    Of Income & Deductions   If you quit your job in this financial, do not forget to collect your Form 16 and declare it in your ITR.     A common practise is to withdraw your EPF to fund your venture. If the EPF was withdrawn before completing five years, it will be added to your taxable income. Payment received in respect of the employer's contribution along with the interest accrued will be taxed as 'salary', while interest on the employee's contribution will be taxable as 'other income'.     Payment received in respect of the employee's own contribution is exempt from tax in case no deduction was claimed in the previous years for the same.   

