URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/lava-international-to-ramp-up-handset-production-in-india/articleshow/53402102.cms

Title : Lava International to ramp up handset production in India - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Noida,luke prakash,Lava International,India,handsets

Date :  Jul 26, 2016, 09.12 PM IST

Document ID : 252

Content:
  CHENNAI: Lava International Ltd, makers of mobile handsets under the brand 'Lava', are in the process of setting up a second assembly unit in Greater Noida as part of ramping up production capacity, a company official said today.     The company currently has its first assembly unit Noida with a capacity of producing one million units per month.     With the second unit also in Noida, the total plant production will be increased to around 2.50 million units, Lava International Ltd Senior Vice-President and Hub Head, Luke Prakash A told repoters here.     "Our current capacity is little over a million handsets per month. From the second unit, the total production wil be increased to 2.50 million devices per month," he said.     Besides, the two assembly units, the company also has planned to set up a two green field manufacturing projects to come up in Yamuna Expressway and the other at Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh.     For the Yamuna Expressway plant, 25 acre land already alloted by the Government of Uttar Pradesh.     The second plant in Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh would come up on a 20 acre land. It will be the first manufacturing plant for Lava in Southern region, he said.     "Total investments earmarked for the plants include Rs 2,615 crore," Lava International Ltd., Vice-President and Head, Marketing and Communication, Solomon Wheeler said.     Lava International clocked revenues of Rs 7,626 crore in FY 2015-16 upby 23 per cent as compared to previous year.     The company was also planning to expand its Research and Development unit in Bengaluru with investments of about Rs 200 crore.     "Right now we have R&D; centre in Bengaluru. It has about 100 employees. We will make investments of Rs 200 crore in our design centre", he said.     To a query on exports, he said the company would serve domestic market and would also export to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, Mexico, United Arab Emirates and Russia. "Very soon we will be launching in Africa", he said.  

