URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/implementing-indian-languages-in-feature-phones-will-be-difficult/articleshow/53625366.cms

Title : Implementing Indian languages in feature phones will be difficult - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : hindi,English,Bureau of Indian Standards,22 Indian official languages

Date :  Aug 10, 2016, 02.31 AM IST

Document ID : 239

Content:
  NEW DELHI: A recent government standard requiring support for inputting text in any one Indian language in mobile phones - along with Hindi and English - has manufacturers worried. The companies argue that the well-intentioned move may be difficult to implement, especially in the case of feature phones, because inventory and logistics will have to be planned for each state.     The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) said in June that all mobile phones must support the ability to type messages in English, Hindi and at least one additional Indian official language. It also requires message readability for all 22 Indian official languages. The objective is to enable widespread communication in local languages, especially for people who may not use English or Hindi with as much ease.     Handset makers said while such changes, which are yet to be notified, can be done easily through software in smartphones, it would be a big challenge for feature phones because of screen and keypad limitations, apart from managing supplies.     "It will be nightmarish to do planning for the number of models (with different languages) to be sold in each state, and plan inventory and logistics around that, so it's very challenging," said Gaurav Nigam, product head of Lava International, which has a phone with message-reading ability in all 22 Indian official languages.        Nigam said the BIS standard does not mandate the printing of vernacular languages on keypads, which would have created a massive hurdle for mobile phone manufacturers. "I might end up over-stocking in some states and lesser inventory in some states, which might lead to loss of sales since I won't be able to divert a Kerala-printed stock to Punjab or any other state," Nigam said. However, the government is hopeful of compliance.     An official said logistical and supply-chain issues can be addressed by companies. "We are talking to them and we are open to giving them a leeway of nine to 12 months to implement the order," said the official, requesting anonymity.     The official said although the government had started consultations on the premise that the third language should be imprinted on the keypad, it was felt in due course that other technologies could also be used. "Some languages can be easily printed on the keyboard, while others can be enabled through typing on the screen," the official said.     Feature phones account for 65 per cent of the total mobile phone user base of about 700 million in India and are popular in rural areas and smaller towns. Sales of feature phones in the country declined to 150 million last year from 179-180 million, according to International Data Corporation, a US market research company.     The Indian Cellular Association, which represents mobile phone makers in India including Apple, Samsung Electronics, Micromax Informatics and Intex, said that it was talking to the BIS and the Department of Electronics and Information Technology on excluding the imprinting of vernacular language characters on keypads from the standard and allowing handset makers to develop solutions for local language input capability in phones.     "A formal communication or notification is expected soon from DeitY on implementing the rules," said Pravin Gondane, associate director at ICA. The department is expected to hold consultations with the industry by the month-end before it comes out with a notification that mandates the standard.     Sunil Abraham, executive director of the Centre for Internet and Society, suggested a middle ground where the government could map all reasonably popular input standards and document them so that customers can pick a phone they are comfortable with.     While awaiting the notification, the association has internally sent notices to all companies stating that printing on keypads may not be necessary, even for feature phones, Gondane said. Alternative solutions could include a keypad cover that lists vernacular language characters for text input and inputting of text through a virtual keypad.     While a task force set up by DeitY admits it's a challenge to implement this rule for feature phones because the number of keys is limited, it suggested that a common minimum framework to assign characters on 12 keys should follow international standards and incorporate Indian languages requirement on the same. The taskforce has issued best practices for designing Indian language text-entry mechanisms for phones with 12 keys, rather than lay out a standard for keypads.     Smartphones have touchscreens, making language reading and inputting changes a software requirement that's easy to implement. Samsung smartphones and feature phones are enabled with typing, reading and changing user interface in 14 local languages, said Manu Sharma, the company's VP of mobile business.  

