URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/internet/airtel-vodafone-idea-likely-to-see-25-fall-in-data-realisations/articleshow/53702985.cms

Title : Airtel, Vodafone, Idea likely to see 25% fall in data realisations - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Vodafone,penetration,market leader,Market,Kolkata,India,in,Idea Cellular,idea,Bharti Airtel,Airtel

Date :  Aug 15, 2016, 03.16 AM IST

Document ID : 163

Content:
  KOLKATA: Bharti Airtel, Vodafone India and Idea Cellular are likely to see a sharp 25% fall in data realisations over the next one year, as they may be compelled to cut rates of even low value monthly data packs to boost penetration and acquire more mobile broadband customers, said analysts and industry experts.    Market leader Airtel and No 3 carrier Idea have reported 2.5% and 8.1% sequential decline in their respective data realisations in the April-June quarter amid competitive pressures, and Vodafone India too said its data revenue in the same quarter had slowed down sharply from the pace of earlier quarters.     India's top three incumbent carriers have already slashed effective data rates by as much as 67% ahead of Reliance Jio Infocomm's commercial launch of 4G services likely sometime this month. But analysts believe it's just a matter of time before similar cuts are extended to the lower-denomination data packs to boost penetration levels.     "Incumbent carriers will soon have to consider hefty price cuts of mass-selling monthly packs that typically offer a 1GB, 500 MB or 300 MB of data to grab mobile broadband customers at the lower-to-middle-end of the market and boost data penetration," said an analyst at a leading European brokerage, who did not wish to be named.     Incumbent operators, he said, have "refrained from doing so" as they fear such pricing moves could trigger a sudden upsurge in data consumption levels, clog their networks and spoil overall customer experience before Jio's commercial launch.     "Incumbents are still in the throes of 3G/4G network roll-outs and if their overall data experience suffers at this stage, they would find it tough to hold on to their top-end customers after Jio launches," said the analyst cited above.     Nitin Soni, director at rating agency Fitch, feels the twin-challenges of boosting data penetration and grabbing new mobile broadband subscribers would only get bigger once Reliance Jio launches 4G.     "It's clearly tough days ahead for incumbents who will have to match Jio both in terms of pricing and service quality, and the latter is no mean task since Jio's will be an empty, high-capacity countrywide data network running on superior 4G airwaves on the 800 Mhz band," Soni told ET.     Soni, in fact, expects incumbents' data revenue per user to shrink by 15-20% over a 12-month span, post-Jio's launch.     Reliance Industries recently said in its annual report that its telecom arm Jio would commercially launch 4G services at substantially lower rates than rivals.     Experts reckon Mukesh Ambani-owned Jio will cause a massive disruption in data and voice prices, leading to another phase of blood-letting in an already fiercely competitive sector. Many expect Jio to launch its services sometime this month, offering free voice services bundled with data, priced at least 25% lower than current offerings of incumbent carriers.     Analysts at Morgan Stanley agree that Jio's much awaited commercial entry will increase competitive intensity, in that, pushing through voice tariffs hikes could be tough and data ARMBs could fall further.     "Incumbents face the risk of of data cannibalizing voice, as well as margin pressure with rising competitive intensity," said the US brokerage, adding that Idea with its relatively smaller balance sheet is at a higher risk than Bharti Airtel.     Gopal Vittal, Bharti Airtel's Managing Director & CEO for India & South Asia, also recently voiced concern about data growth plateauing, and ruled out mobile internet penetration rising dramatically in the next one year, unless smartphone prices drop down to the Rs 500/600 level.     Goldman Sachs, however, expects the divergence between Idea and Bharti's data revenue growth to continue, given the latter's superior data network (read: 4G) coverage. Idea's on-year data revenue growth at 27% in the April-June quarter was slower than Bharti's 35%, the brokerage said. Vodafone India's on-year data revenue grew 22.3% during the same period, which was way below the 45% growth level scaled in FY16.     But Idea stole a march over Bharti on the data subscriber additions front, adding 5.1 million in the April-June quarter against Bharti's 1.1 million, which was one of the lowest in many quarters, according to analysts.  

