URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//limited-edition-prints-gaining-popularity/articleshow/11856039.cms

Title : Limited edition prints gaining popularity - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : lithography,Limited Edition Print,Intaglio

Date :  Feb 12, 2012, 05.42 AM IST

Document ID : 439

Content:
      Prints are growing in popularity, making them an affordable option for buyers and collectors. As there are several kinds of prints available in the market, it helps to understand a few common terminologies that are associated with prints.        LIMITED EDITION PRINT:        There are multiples made by the artist using different print-making techniques such as relief, intaglio and stencil, which are used to transfer the image. It is important to differentiate that it is not a reproduction but considered to be an 'original' form of art. As the name suggests, it is limited in number, and each print is signed and numbered by the artist.             For instance, lithographs, etchings, and woodcuts are some of the options available as limited edition prints. Traditionally, the plate which is used to create the multiples is destroyed to ensure that the number of prints does not exceed beyond what the artist produces or creates.        WOOD CUT AND LITHOGRAPHY PRINT:        A wood cut is a type of relief printing where a design is carved on a wood block or plate and then transferred to paper.             Lithography literally translates to 'stone drawing' and involves a process of printing from a small stone or metal plate, which essentially follows the principle that oil and water do not mix.        INTAGLIO:        This involves a process where a design is incised on the surface of a metal plate made of copper or zinc, or a polymer plate. The print is created by applying pressure on the             paper from a plate where the design is recessed or etched on its surface.             Etching, engraving, and aquatint are some of the prints that are created using this process.        SERIGRAPH:        A serigraph is produced when ink or paint is forced through a fine screen (stencil) onto a surface, usually paper or canvas. A different screen is used for each colour, and the result is therefore rich in colour and may have some texture as well.             From a collector's perspective, the smaller the edition size the more desirable it is. However, the larger the edition size the more affordable it will be.    

