URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/getting-lost-in-the-urban-business-mumbo-jumbo-here-are-ten-words-to-keep-you-up-to-date/articleshow/53394758.cms

Title : Getting lost in the urban business mumbo-jumbo? Here are ten words to keep you up to date - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Wantrepreneur,Unicorn,Uberize,Stealth Mode,Sheep,One dollar billionnaire,Hockey stick curve,Founderitis,Bootstarapping,Bleeding Edge,Acquihire

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 05.16 AM IST

Document ID : 319

Content:
  Valuation, venture capitalist, burn, churn, unicorn, decacorn, pre-revenue, resting, vesting — words that have become a rather familiar part of business lexicon. But here are a few more you might or might not know, that could come in handy if you're speaking to a twenty-something chief visionary in khakis and flip-flops or an investor in a suit.    Acquihire  Remember the line "Leave the gun, take the cannoli' from 'The Godfather'? Well, acquihire is kind of like that; when a company is acquired primarily for its people, their skills and expertise, rather than the product or service.    Bleeding edge  Technology that's still experimental and risky (bugs, temperamental, costly). Yet lead adopters give an arm, leg, and first-born to acquire it. And cutting themselves on the edge while at it.    Bootstarapping  Starting up on a strict budget, stretching all resources to max, using personal nuances or operating revenue to build the company and eating vada pav for breakfast, lunch and dinner    Founderitis  Or Founders Syndrome, an af iction which turns a founder into an autocratic know-it-all who thinks she/he and her/his invention will inevitably change the world. Disagree and its detention or the highway.    Hockey stick curve  When growth surges after an initial slow growth spell. The line chart looks like a hockey stick. If it doesn't stay that way, the stick can double up as 'Exhibit A: Murder Weapon' in court.    Stealth mode  When the company practices the utmost discretion about its workings to protect the product/service and secure the company's future. In some cases, pre-launch frenzy because of all that secrecy can help attract bigger investments. Nothing like slapping STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL on a le if you want people to open it. Software company Domo came out of stealth mode after ve years and raised $200 million at a $2billion valuation.    One dollar billionnaire  Founders take home a dollar salary for tax bene ts. Also indicates that they're focused on company growth when they take a signi cant equity stake rather than a boatload of cash. In any case,they can still buy $500 Ralph Lauren bed sheets on $1 salary per annum.    Sheep  Investors who fall prey to herd mentality. VC: "You've got a great idea and team, but I'm just not a believer." At which point the founder drops the name of a hot shot investor and then the VC, hands up in the air, sings "I Believe! I Believe!" like man just healed by faith on the God channel.    Wantrepreneur  Aspiring entrepreneurs who want all the glory but don't have the guts to see their ideas and companies through. Also the type who introduce themselves as "serial entrepreneur" at parties and on LinkedIn    Uberize  Cambridge Dictionary: To change the market for a service by introducing a different way of buying or using it, especially using mobile technology. Urban Dictionary: To destroy or defeat in a quick and effortless manner.  

