URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/amazon-backed-on-demand-home-services-provider-housejoy-moves-to-hyperlocal-model/articleshow/53750068.cms

Title : Amazon-backed on-demand home services provider Housejoy moves to hyperlocal model - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : new,in,hyperlocal,Housejoy,home services,city,Cities,categories,Business,Bengaluru,Beauty,Amazon

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 08.39 AM IST

Document ID : 726

Content:
  BENGALURU: On-demand home services provider Housejoy has moved to a hyperlocal model, using specific hubs to cater to orders originating from specific areas in the city. The Amazon-backed platform has also moved to a mixed model where it will serve certain categories using employees on its payroll and the rest on a marketplace model.     "We rolled out the hybrid marketplace model a few weeks back where beauty as a category will be serviced by experts on our payroll. Other categories such as home repair and home appliances — where the repeat work is higher — will have a mix of service providers on our payroll as well as on the marketplace," said Saran Chatterjee, CEO of Housejoy. The pilot for the model is being tried out in Bengaluru.     Housejoy currently has 500-plus experts on its payroll in the beauty category across the eight cities it is present in. The company had recently rolled back services in certain pockets of Bengaluru. The upgraded platform and the new model will aid the company improve its metrics ahead of a subsequent round of funding.     "We are not actively raising capital but investors who come in later will look for distinct metrics in a company at the Series-C level," said Saran Chatterjee, adding that while serving consumers remains the major focus, the company is piloting services for business establishments such as offices, restaurants and clinics. "We are not into facilities management though we also work on the business-to-business-tocustomer (B2B2C) segment through our tie-ups with hotel chain Treebo and rental platform NestAway," he added.     The platform has also moved to a hyperlocal model where services can be booked at a minimum turnaround time of 2 hours. "We have geo-fenced the locations which we serve, specific to each of the 14 categories. Orders generated from an area will be served by hubs or professionals designated to it. This increases the utilisation of the service provider by 15-20%," said Chatterjee.     The geo-targeted interface allows users to book services only after they specify a location on the app, similar to what ondemand cab aggregation platforms like Uber and Ola do. Housejoy has also made it mandatory for service providers to accept orders over the app to incentivise active service providers.  

