URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/thirteen-stocks-in-focus-on-monday-11-july-2016/articleshow/53146529.cms

Title : Thirteen stocks in focus on Monday, 11 July 2016 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : United Spirits,Shree Cement,Reliance communications,Neyveli Lignite,Lupin,L&T,Dishman Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals,Dishman,Crompton Greaves,Bharti Airtel

Date :  Jul 11, 2016, 07.46 AM IST

Document ID : 921

Content:
  NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to open higher on Monday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.     "Technically, the way market is holding above the 8300 level and buyers is taking any short term correction as opportunity to enter into the market, its seems sentiment is extremely bullish," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.     "The momentum indicator is in favour of continuation of the present trend as no divergence is still visible. On the downside 8150 is likely to offer support in medium term," he added.    Here is a list of top thirteen stocks that are likely to be in focus today:   Tata Steel:  Tata Steel has entered into discussions with strategic players in the steel industry including Thyssenkrupp AG of Germany for a possible joint venture involving its European steel businesses, a Tata Steel statement issued late Friday night said.    Tata Motors:  Tata Motors reported 20.8 per cent increase in global sales at 92,551 units, including that of Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) vehicles, in June.    Reliance Communications:  Promoters of Reliance Communications have pledged 3.8 crore shares at an estimated value of Rs 190 crore before private banks.    United Spirits:  United Spirits, the Indian unit of the world's largest liquor company Diageo, said its additional enquiry revealed Vijay Mallya and his associate companies diverted funds of over Rs 1,225.30 crore between October 2010 and July 2014.    L&T;:  Betting big on IT and engineering technology services, diversified conglomerate L&T; aims to expand revenue share of services businesses to 15 per cent, while bringing down the projects portfolio to 70 per cent.    Neyveli Lignite Corporation:  Neyveli Lignite is likely to buy at least 75 per cent stake in Damodar Valley Corporation's 1,200 megawatt Raghunathpur thermal power project.    Shree Cement:  The NCR chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India has decided to boycott Shree Cement on complaints alleging arbitrary price increases and creating a shortage of the building material.    Lupin:  Drug firm Lupin said US health regulator has voiced minor concerns after completing the inspection of its Dabhasa facility in Gujarat.    Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals:  CGCEL said HDFC Mutual Fund has trimmed stake in the company by 2.07 per cent to 5.13 per cent by selling shares worth over Rs 181 crore in the open market.    Bharti Airtel:  Telecom Ministry is believed to have cleared the Rs 3,500-crore 4G spectrum trading deal between service providers Bharti Airtel and Aircel.    Dishman Pharma:  Drug firm Dishman Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals today said inspection of its Bavla plant has been successfully completed by the USFDA.    Max Ventures:  Max Ventures and Industries Ltd informed BSE that Max I. Limited, (a wholly owned subsidiary of Max Ventures and Industries Limited) on July 8, 2016 entered into definitive agreements to subscribe to 7,615,947 compulsorily convertible debentures and 100 (One Hundred) equity shares of Azure Hospitality, amounting to 11.17% of the paid up share capital of Azure Hospitality for an aggregate consideration of Rs. 33.50 crores.    Birla Corp:  M P Birla group flagship Birla Corporation strongly defended the Rs 4,800 crore deal to buy Reliance Infrastructure's cement business, saying the sector's outlook is good with demand pull seen in near future.     

