URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/startup-mantra-of-manish-kalra-craftsvilla-be-patient-and-stay-lean/articleshow/53502159.cms

Title : Startup mantra of Manish Kalra, Craftsvilla: Be patient and stay lean - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Startups,Manish Kalra,e-commerce,Do’s and Don’ts,Craftsvilla

Date :  Aug 03, 2016, 05.14 AM IST

Document ID : 311

Content:
 By Manish Kalra    I've worked in e-commerce startups at different life stages for the last six years. These include one that was maturing, the other an MNC operating like a startup, and one that was still evolving. A startup is no different from any other business. The core is the customer, and the value you add to their life. If you have a clear business model which understands the customer needs, and addresses them in a way customers prefer; you are in the game!     After the customer relevance test come the tougher questions. Execution is what differentiates a potentially successful startup from a disaster waiting to happen. Running a startup can be like driving a race car in a maze with many dead ends. So the Do's and Don'ts here are more around how to avoid potential pitfalls. Plan meticulously and execute flawlessly.    Do's  1. Build Your USP  The first rule is understanding who your customer is and what they want. How can you add value to them in a way that no one else can? Is the value good enough for the customer to pay for your service? If not, go iterate with them on changes to the product or service to make it relevant.    2. Build A Great Team   A startup should think of this before starting to burn money on marketing and discounts. Hire people who are smart, have the right skillsets and enable them with tools and processes. Build a culture of ownership so that they put in their best to deliver with all the constraints that a startup comes with.    3. Stay Focused   Do not try to do too many things. Do one thing better than every one else. Ensure you are evolving with the core users and creating something relevant for them. Often, startups spread thin rather than being the best in a core business. Complementary services will come your way, but go after them only when the core is firing all cylinders.    4. Stay Persistent And Have Patience   Have persistence, patience and communicate with all stakeholders regularly. Just like Arjuna in Mahabharata at the svayamavara - keep your eyes focused on the eye of the rotating fish. Think of what skill and practice will take you there the right way and work towards it. There is not shortcut to hit the bull's eye.    5. Stay Lean   Always know your budget and define what success looks like. Budgeting right should be seen as the biggest success defining factor and not a constraint in the life cycle of a startup. This does not mean you cannot make mistakes; just that you can't afford to make them twice. Iterate regularly, stay flexible, learn, measure and improvise. Get the right tools to achieve this. Build clear goals on efficiency. Know your leaky buckets and plug them fast. Ultimately the businesses which can stand on its own feet without the crutches from VCs will survive in the long term.    Don'ts:  1. Don't Spend Recklessly   Once you go on a spending spree to buy growth, it seems like the only way. While the shortest path to growth, it is also a drug, so take this in measured doses. We have all seen startups shut shop as marketing did not deliver, or was ineffective, or there were too many discounts, or it did not have patience to invest in organic channels of growth.    2. Don't Ignore Data   Magic can happen only when numbers support it. While a vision and passion are important, never use the latter to recklessly pursue the former, unless supported by facts. You need hard numbers supporting your vision. In the world of ecommerce and digital marketing, you can measure every action and hence use it your advantage.    3. Never Get Frustrated   As much as you would like all things falling in the right place at the right time, it may not be the case. Sometimes technology fails and sometimes people. Don't let the ups and downs impact the way you approach your personal and professional lives. Just keep at it and keep doing the right things. Things will fall in place, so never lose hope!    The author is chief business officer, Craftsvilla. Views expressed are personal. 

