URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/why-the-next-three-months-could-be-do-or-die-period-for-dalal-street/articleshow/53720900.cms

Title : Why the next three months could be do or die period for Dalal Street - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Sensex,JM Financial,Hero MotoCorp,festive season,Dalal Street,Consumption stocks,Auto

Date :  Aug 16, 2016, 02.04 PM IST

Document ID : 464

Content:
  NEW DELHI: If you think the forthcoming festive season, and holidays, will make trading on Dalal Street lacklustre, think again.     Experts believe the forthcoming two-three months will be crucial for the market, given the fact that improving monsoon rains and the pay commission award could boost demand for consumption-related sectors that roughly account for 35-40 per cent activity of any given financial year during the three months. In case these months fail to see any spurt in demand, the market may turn lacklustre going ahead, say experts.     "The festive season is when entire dispatches go in and almost 40 per cent to 50 per cent economic activity is focused around these three months. If there has to be a decisive move in the indices, it has to be in these three months because if these three months do not pan out for most companies including consumer and auto companies, then it will be very difficult to see triggers in the next two quarters," said Ajay Srivastava, CEO, Dimensions Consulting.     In 2015, after a sharp 6.5 per cent slump in August due to the currency war globally, BSE benchmark Sensex managed to hold the levels in the three months to November.     During September-November of 2014, the 30-pack index had returned 7.17 per cent. In 2013, the index had climbed 9.23 per cent to rise above the 21,000 level from 19,000 level in August end. In 2012, the index had in fact climbed 11 per cent in the three months.     "So if anything has to happen, it should happen in this quarter. This is the best-performing season for all the companies. To that extent, in terms of pure timing of the market, the environment I think is conducive. I would wonder if this quarter does not deliver, then next two quarters will have no trigger to take the market higher," said Srivastava.     The improvement in rainfall has made many analysts believe that farm income could be up by double digits (after three years of decline) in FY17, supported by an increase in net sown area, higher yield and supportive prices.    JM Financial Institutional Securities in a strategy note said it would play deleveraging through Mahindra Finance, while it would bank upon Hero Motocorp in the discretionary space.     "We continue to expect initial savings from increased rural income to go into deleveraging and small ticket purchases; and prefer to play deleveraging through Mahindra Finance and discretionary via Hero Motocorp. A healthy farm output is also expected to enable food inflation to subside from current level," it said.     A favourable monsoon and the forthcoming festive season will keep the market at eleviated levels, Jimeet Modi, CEO at SAMCO Securities, said in a recent note.  

