URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/best-of-the-best-the-10-best-performing-quality-stocks-of-the-year-you-can-look-at/articleshow/53374688.cms

Title : Best of the best: The 10 best-performing quality stocks of the year you can look at - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Tata Motors,Sun Pharma,portfolio,News,New Delhi,Motilal Oswal,Market,Lupin,ITC,earnings,BPCL,Auto,Ambuja Cements

Date :  Jul 25, 2016, 10.39 AM IST

Document ID : 824

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Whether we're talking about socks or stocks, I like buying quality merchandise when it is marked down, Warren Buffett, the Oracle of Omaha, had once said.     The Nifty Quality30 index, a gauge of 30 quality stocks handpicked on three broad parameters, has outperformed the broader Nifty50 since its inception on March 19, 2015.     The Nifty Quality30 has returned 12 per cent since its launch while Nifty50 has fallen 1.23 per cent in the same period. On a yearly basis, the Nifty50 has managed to generate 0.23 per cent returns while the Nifty Quality30 has given 2.28 per cent, nine times that of Nifty50.     The index constituents are selected based on indicators like return on equity, debt-to-equity ratio and average year-on-year growth in PAT in previous three years, according to the index's fact sheet.     Digging deeper, we hunted the best performing stocks of calendar 2016 within that index and arrived at the following 10 names that outperformed not only Nifty50, but their own benchmark, Nifty Quality30, too.      The top three include PSU giant BPCL, cement maker Ambuja Cements and auto giant Tata Motors with ITC and MRF too making it to the list of 10.     The presence of BPCL and Ambuja Cements in the top two places is remarkable given the rocking past 12 months the industries they belong to have had.     Oil prices have plunged and then rallied, while the cement sector has seen a turnaround from being a no-no to a must have in your portfolio this year.     "Auto fuel deregulation is transforming the OMCs into a structural investment play in our view led by (a) higher earnings predictability and (b) increase in profitability leading to higher RoEs," Dharmesh Kant, Head of Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Securities, told ETMarkets.com via email.     The Fortune500 firm's 30 per cent return so far this year is testimony to that confidence shown by investors. MOSL, which has a 12-month target of Rs 608 on BPCL, sees a further 6 per cent upside on the stock.     Second-placed Ambuja Cements delivered another set of stellar numbers with the added good news of its acquisition of 244 per cent stake in LafargeHolcim.     "Ambuja Cement is a stock that we can definitely look to buy from a medium-term perspective even though the stock has already seen a good rally," said Manav Chopra, Head - Technical Analyst, Monarch Networth Capital.     However, quality comes at a cost with many of the top 10 stocks already commanding price-to-earnings multiples (it is the price you pay to receive a part of the company's earnings) above their benchmark.     Parag Thakkar of HDFC Securities believes "many of the stocks for which near-term visibility is very good have already turned very expensive." However, he said "some quality stocks -- whether it is Lupin or Sun Pharma -- are trading reasonable levels."     "I feel there is a good case for buying on dips. If the market corrects, it will definitely be a great buying opportunity within the quality pack," Thakkar said.  

