URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/patanjalis-impact-on-fmcg-cos-seen-limited/articleshow/53765232.cms

Title : Patanjali's impact on FMCG cos seen limited - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : patanjali,FMCG companies,earnings,Dabur,Colgate-Palmolive,Colgate,Baba Ramdev

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 08.33 AM IST

Document ID : 914

Content:
  Mumbai: While it is not possible to single out Patanjali's impact on the mainstream Indian fastmoving consumer goods (FMCG) companies, the overall performance of FMCG companies in the past two quarters on and off the bourses hints at a limited impact so far.     Despite acknowledging the increase in competitive intensity due to Patanjali, CEOs of most FMCG firms in their quarterly earnings call have denied having had a disruptive impact on their businesses.     In fact, the impact of Patanjali was not as severe as feared. This was evident from the fact that leading Indian FMCG companies generated double-digit returns on the Street in the past six months.     Most companies have taken on Patanjali by diversifying their portfolios to include ayurvedic or other herbal products. Colgate, for instance, is launching Cibaca Vedshakti, a low-priced herbal toothpaste, to take on Patanjali's Dant Kanti and Dabur Red. "I think as far as Patanjali is concerned, there's a huge learning for a lot of us in terms of how quickly they have scaled up. At the same time, as a market lead er, it is important that we continue to innovate. I think they are operating in a space where I believe multiple players' playing will actually grow the market," said Saugata Gupta, CEO of Marico, in the company's firstquarter earnings call.     The fact that companies have not hesitated to launch non-herbal products indicates that Patanjali does not pose a formidable threat across all categories.While none of the existing players have lost significantly, it is the consumers who have benefited as well as the industry that has gained with the arrival and spending of the new player.     With its single-brand strategy, Patanjali has brought Ayurveda and herbal back in fashion. "The `5,000-crore revenues have not been built at the cost of existing players. New consumers from rural and semi-urban areas have got added," Ullas Kamath, joint MD of Jyothy Labs, told ET. Emami's director Mohan Goenka in the company's latest earnings call, said, "Our strategy is not to convert unorganised to organised. We are not competing with Patanjali and Dabur -we have selected a niche audience, and if they think ours is the purest honey , they would buy it. We are not competing on price." Goenka was reacting to a question on competition from lower priced honey sold by Baba Ramdev's Patanjali.     At this year's Bernstein's 32nd Annual Strate gic Decisions Conference held in June, Ian Cook, the CEO of New York-headquartered Colgate-Palmolive, acknowledged that it was Dabur rather than Patanjali which impacted his company's performance in India during the March quarter. "There's been a lot of press about this Patanjali yoga Baba guy in India. But the issue is Dabur," Cook said.     Responding to a question in the quarterly earnings call on the increase in competitive intensity, Sunil Duggal, CEO of Dabur, said, "Patanjali is now almost a year old. There is obviously higher level of competition but not of a disruptive nature. They're still pretty much within the realm of the normal, which we are matching quite frankly ."     Nonetheless, it is too early to write off Patanjali. With the consumer demand being subdued, most FMCG companies are not yet having strong volume growth. The real impact of Patanajli will be gauged once consumer demand picks up on the back of a good monsoon and increased government expenditure.     In May, Varun Berry, Britannia's CEO, referring to Patanjali, said in the company's fourth quarter earnings call. "I think that Patanjali's right to succeed is in very traditional products. However, I don't think that we're brushing them aside. We are trying to see if there's anything that we can incorporate to make sure that we do not let them become as big as they've become in certain other traditional categories," he said. These remarks could well encapsulate the industry's sentiment towards the new kid on the block.  

