URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/save/lucrative-commissions-for-easy-work-may-entangle-you-in-money-laundering/articleshow/53351491.cms

Title : Lucrative commissions for easy work may entangle you in money laundering - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : work-fromhome job,money mule,money laundering,Job portals,financial crime

Date : Jul 25, 2016, 06.30 AM IST

Document ID : 330

Content:
  If you are offered a handsome income for easy work or a commission to facilitate a banking transaction, don't fall for the offer. You could become an unwitting accomplice in a financial crime. Criminal syndicates are forever searching for people whose bank accounts can be used to launder their ill-gotten money. Known as 'money mules', these people are lured by work-fromhome job offers, lucrative commissions and freelancing opportunities through e-mails, ads and job portals. The fraudsters ask for bank details and transfer money into the person's account. He is offered a hefty commission on the transferred sum. The money mule is then directed to transfer the money to another money mule's account, starting a chain that ultimately results in the money getting transferred into the criminal's account.     The victim does not suspect anything because there is very little money of his own in the account and he earns a fat commission by doing virtually nothing. In reality, the criminals use his bank as a transit account to hide their financial footprint. Money muling is illegal and one can get into big trouble if caught. In most cases, the money being transferred is illegal so the money mule is guilty of collaborating with criminals. One can't get away even if one is an unwitting accomplice in the racket because ignorance is not a defence.     Experts say that the lure of easy money causes money mules to turn a blind eye to the risks and the illegality of the deal. If someone is offered 2-3% of a large sum running into thousands of dollars for just lending his bank account, he may not want to consider the pitfalls of the arrangement. But sophisticated financial forensics can trace the money mules and bring them to book. Their bank accounts get suspended, their credit scores fall off the cliff and they can even be put in jail for collaborating in a criminal activity.     Most banks have anti-fraud guidelines for customers. Here are a few basic precautions one should take to avoid becoming a money mule. Do not respond to emails asking for your bank account details. Verify the background of the company that offers you a job. Don't just go by the mobile number. Check the landline number, postal address, email ID and website of the company. Be especially wary of overseas job offers—it will be harder to ascertain the legitimacy of a foreign company. Avoid firms and individuals that ask you to carry out international transactions for them via your bank account. Don't get carried away by attractive offers/commissions and don't consent to receive unauthorised money.     Be cautious of easy money opportunities. Ads in poor English with grammatical errors are an obvious red flag. Money mule advertisements can be in different forms and scamsters may even clone a genuine company's website. They seek 'Indian representatives' or 'agents' to act on their behalf to avoid high transaction charges or local taxes. In reality, they are seeking a money mule to launder money.     (By Saiyid Safdar Abbas Zaidi, author and motivational speaker)  

