URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/software/over-50-of-cloud-services-and-corporate-data-stored-in-cloud-is-uncontrolled-study/articleshow/53414868.cms

Title : Over 50% of cloud services and corporate data stored in cloud is uncontrolled: Study - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Ponemon Institute,IT,Global Cloud Data Security Study,Corporate data,cloud services

Date :  Jul 27, 2016, 03.50 PM IST

Document ID : 192

Content:
  NEW DELHI: Despite the continued importance of cloud computing resources to organizations, companies are not adopting appropriate governance and security measures to protect sensitive data in the cloud.     These are just a few findings a Ponemon Institute study titled "The 2016 Global Cloud Data Security Study," commissioned by Gemalto the world leader in digital security.     The study surveyed more than 3,400 IT and IT security practitioners worldwide to gain a better understanding of key trends in data governance and security practices for cloud-based services.     According to 73 per cent of respondents, cloud-based services and platforms are considered important to their organization's operations and 81 per cent said they will be more so over the next two years.     In fact, 36 per cent of respondents said their companies' total IT and data processing needs were met using cloud resources today and that they expected this to increase to forty-five percent over the next two years.     Although cloud-based resources are becoming more important to companies' IT operations and business strategies, 54 per cent of respondents did not agree their companies have a proactive approach to managing security and complying with privacy and data protection regulations in cloud environments.     This is despite the fact that 65 per cent of respondents said their organizations are committed to protecting confidential or sensitive information in the cloud.     Furthermore, 56 per cent did not agree their organization is careful about sharing sensitive information in the cloud with third parties such as business partners, contractors and vendors.     "Cloud security continues to be a challenge for companies, especially in dealing with the complexity of privacy and data protection regulations," said Dr. Larry Ponemon, Chairman and Founder, Ponemon Institute.     "To ensure compliance, it is important for companies to consider deploying such technologies as encryption, tokenization or other cryptographic solutions to secure sensitive data transferred and stored in the cloud," added Ponemon.     "Organizations have embraced the cloud with its benefits of cost and flexibility but they are still struggling with maintaining control of their data and compliance in virtual environments," said Jason Hart, Vice President and Chief Technology Officer - Data Protection, Gemalto.     "It's quite obvious security measures are not keeping pace because the cloud challenges traditional approaches of protecting data when it was just stored on the network. It is an issue that can only be solved with a data-centric approach in which IT organizations can uniformly protect customer and corporate information across the dozens of cloud-based services their employees and internal departments rely every day," added Hart.  

