URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/short-term-outlook-good-in-metals-nischal-maheshwari-edelweiss-securities/articleshow/53739565.cms

Title : Short-term outlook good in metals: Nischal Maheshwari, Edelweiss Securities - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : world,stocks,So,News,mean,Infosys,in,ET,Edelweiss,earnings,Brexit

Date :  Aug 17, 2016, 04.18 PM IST

Document ID : 629

Content:
  In a chat with ET News, Nischal Maheshwari, Head Institutional Equities, Edelweiss Securities, says but he is yet to be convinced about as far as the global recovery as far as the metals is concerned. Edited excerpts        ET Now: As we look at the index, the one space that is looking under a lot of pressure in the last two-three days maybe because of Infy losing out on the RBS contract is IT. All the stocks, largecaps, possibly even some midcaps are under pressure. What is the house call right now?         Nischal Maheshwari:    We have been positive on IT basically, but stock specific actually and we think that one or two contracts here or there is not going to make much of difference as far as Infosys is concerned. I think our top picks in that sector remains to be Infosys. On a broader sense, I think there is pressure on the industry at the time being given that most of the industry if we look at their last quarter calls they have been not very sure about the impact of Brexit and I think that is what is pulling down the whole industry and outlook for the industry and that is why I believe the stocks are also under pressure.        ET Now: There is a bit if a hitch that has happened in the microfinance category and it is a large sector now by itself by virtue of the three or four companies that are present and the reason I bring this up is in the last earnings call with Ujjiwan the management was candid enough to say that the return ratios that they have clocked in in this quarter are probably the peak, they will kind of correct over the course of time. Since then, almost of all of these companies are off anywhere between 10% and 20% as the case may be. Have they hit a bit of a near term ceiling or do you think this is just profit booking because of the massive run up that we have seen already in these stocks? What is your call?         Nischal Maheshwari:    So I think profit taking is definitely which has happened in the last two or three weeks as far as the whole MFI is concerned. But having said that I think the growth trajectory still continues to be pretty strong for them and I think doing a 25% kind of a growth for the next two years at least seems quite possible for them. They may not scale back to the same kind of valuations but I think the growth is still there, a 25% CAGR growth for the next two years should drive the prices obviously higher up from these levels also        ET Now: The other things is what is happening in the commodity space. So one, my analysts tells me steel prices are trading at three-four months high and those stocks are trading very, very well, all the metal names and on the other side, we have had soft commodity names -- sugar, tea, coffee, etc, all coming off in a heap. I mean name a stock and that is down about 20-25% if not more from the recent highs that it has clocked in. What are you doing within the commodity space?         Nischal Maheshwari:    So commodity is a difficult space to track basically and since it is driven by the international trend so you need to be very, very nimble in them actually and as yet I do not believe that the commodity cycle has turnaround as far the steel and the base metals and all are concerned.     I still believe that there are challenges of growth across the world and because you have got some benefits coming in terms of custom duties and all as far as Indian producers are concerned that cushion of around Rs 6000 to 7000 is actually helping the whole sector out. Having said that I think in the short term the outlook looks good for them but I am yet to be convinced about as far as the global recovery as far as the metals is concerned.     On the sugar and tea side, I would only say frothy valuations and some amount of profit taking but there has been very good crop as far as tea is concerned the world over and sugar yes I think the cycle should get extended because the Brazil crop has been bad and though Indian crop should be good but it is still around 18 months away because sugar takes around 12 to 18 months to actually the cycle to come over. So I think there should be recovery in these stocks.  

