URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/tax/concealed-income-by-mistake-no-i-t-penalty/articleshow/52021197.cms

Title : Concealed income by mistake? No I-T penalty - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : tax officials,Mumbai,mistake,I-T return,I-T penalty,Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal,Concealed income

Date : Apr 28, 2016, 10.56 AM IST

Document ID : 558

Content:
  MUMBAI: The Mumbai bench of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), in a recent order, has taken a benevolent view and dismissed the penalty levied by income-tax officials for 'concealment of income' in the hands of a salaried employee.     A punching error committed by an online tax-return filing portal, whose services the salaried employee (taxpayer) had enlisted, resulted in under-reporting of salary income in the taxpayer's I-T return. tax officials treated such under-reporting of income as an attempt to conceal income and imposed a heavy penalty on the taxpayer.     After examining the facts of the case and the personal circumstances of the taxpayer, the ITAT dismissed the penalty, on the ground that the taxpayer had no mala fide intent to evade tax or claim refunds dubiously.     In the context of salaried employees, the ITAT also observed that I-T officials have full details of the salary income of a taxpayer in their data base, as quarterly returns of TDS are filed by the employer. The employers also issue form no 16 to employees which contains salary and TDS details. Hence, it is not very feasible for a salaried person to evade taxes by filing inaccurate salary particulars or by concealing salary income. The ITAT order is taxpayer friendly, as it recognised that a taxpayer should not be penalised for negligence committed by an online tax-return filing portal. However, this order cannot have a blanket application on all other cases where income has been under-reported in I-T returns, caution tax officials and tax experts.     "In this case, the taxpayer was able to demonstrate her bona fides by showing the circumstances under which the error was committed. Her subsequent behaviour, including paying back the erroneous refund she had obtained, also demonstrated that she had no mala fide intention. Further, the income which was understated in the I-T return was salary income, on which tax had already been deducted at source--this weighed significantly with the ITAT, in deciding to delete the penalty," explains Gautam Nayak, tax partner, CNK & Associates.     "Taxpayers must check the contents of the online I-T return which is being filed on their behalf by online tax-return filing portals," says a tax official.     At present, all taxpayers having an income of over Rs 5 lakh have to file their I-T returns online. During 2015-16, 4.34 crore I-T returns were filed electronically, a rise of nearly 27% over the previous year, according to statistics released by the ministry of finance. In this case, which was recently heard by the ITAT, Richa Dubey had in the financial year 2010-11, received a salary of Rs 26,376 from Nielson Research and Rs 21.22 lakh from Hin dustan Unilever (HUL), aggregating to Rs 21.48 lakh.     She had submitted copies of Form 16, containing her salary details to the online tax-return filing portal, Taxspanner, whose services she had availed of even in earlier years. This portal wrongly punched her taxable salary from HUL as Rs 2.09 lakh instead of Rs 20.96 lakh, which resulted in her salary income being under-reported.     At the time of filing of the I-T return, the taxpayer was five months pregnant and was also under immense work pressure. Paucity of time prevented her from checking the content of the I-T return filed. She relied on the services of the portal; blindly signed the e-acknowledgement sent to her by the portal and forwarded it to the I-T department.     When her case came up for scrutiny, the tax officer levied the maximum penalty of Rs.13.04 lakh (or 300% of the tax sought to be evaded) for concealment of income. In addition to the under-reporting of salary income, the tax officer also noted that Dubey had also not reported interest of Rs 16,803 on her savings bank account, which she claimed was an oversight and had wrongly held a commission of Rs 85,270 received from a real estate broker to be a non-taxable capital receipt.     The Commissioner of I-T (Appeals) also upheld the imposition of penalty for concealment income even as he reduced the penalty quantum. Subsequently, Dubey filed an appeal before the ITAT, which in its April 20 order, waived the penalty as it found that there was no deliberate attempt to conceal income.    

