URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/commodities/news/punters-shift-bets-from-dollar-to-pound-yen/articleshow/53769279.cms

Title : Punters shift bets from dollar to pound & yen - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : volatility,shorting,risk,place,Open Interest,Market,futures market,commodities,Brexit

Date :  Aug 19, 2016, 02.10 PM IST

Document ID : 589

Content:
  Mumbai: Higher volatility has attracted stock and commodity futures market punters to the pound and yen-rupee futures, pushing outstanding positions or open interest in these counters to multi-year highs in the recent past.     Since the Brexit referendum on June 23, the average 10-day volatility through August 18 in the GBP rupee front month futures has been almost 20 per cent (annualised) compared with just 4.2 per cent in the dollar-rupee futures counter.     Similarly , the yen-rupee futures' volatility has been 16.7 per cent. Higher the variation in daily price percentage change, more the scope for traders to make money , or risk losing. While this was expected after the British voted to leave the EU on June 23, sensing that the pound would fall against the dollar, traders here started taking proxy bets on the pound-rupee. They sold the pound against the rupee to gain.     This pushed open interest of the front month GBP-INR futures to a record high of 66,027 contracts on July 10. OI currently is a 42932 contracts. Over the period June 23-Aug 18, the pound has fallen by 12 per cent against the rupee. Traders who went short pound (and long rupee) have squeezed those who took a contra bet.     Similarly , sensing that a lesser-than-expected stimulus by Japan in August would put pressure on the dollar-yen, many punters here began selling the rupee and buying the yen. This resulted in the rupee falling almost 5 per cent against the yen over the last two months. "As a proxy (in place of shorting dollar and buying yen), clients here would have sold rupee to buy yen," said Suresh Nair, director, Admisi Commodities. In comparison, the dollar has slipped by 1.6 per cent against the rupee since June 23.     That's a relatively small movement compared with how much GBP and Yen have moved over the period. "GBP and yen have provided alternates to dollar-rupee pair over the past few months," said Viral Shah, head, commodity & currency desk at Geofin Comtrade."There's quite a bit of trading interest, especially in pound rupee." Participation would have been greater had the position limits been higher, said analysts. For instance, a domestic client can take up to $15 million exposure in USD-INR but just $5 million in yen, pound and euro, put together without underlying exposure.  

