URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/Why-are-early-stage-Venture-Catalysts-offering-much-more-than-startup-funding/articleshow/53789751.cms

Title : Why are early stage Venture Catalysts offering much more than startup funding - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : sundayET

Date :  Aug 21, 2016, 01.15 AM IST

Document ID : 977

Content:
  When Neerav Parekh bagged seed funding — an undisclosed amount — for his fledgling data analytics startup vPhrase Analytics in February this year, the unassuming entrepreneur killed two birds with one bagful of money: Raising funds and "outsourcing worries to a specialist". "We knew that we now didn't need to worry about issues that were constantly bugging us," recalls Parekh, who started vPhrase in May last year. One such bugbear that was passed onto the "specialist" was office space, something that the 35-year-old entrepreneur was hunting for some nine months, but with not much success; either the rent was too high or the location wasn't right.     However, when Parekh finally got a space for his team, he realised that his headache had just begun. Regular administrative chores such as finding a maid to clean the office, arranging for water, and maintenance of lights and ACs started eating into his time.     So what did Parekh do? Simple, after getting funded, he promptly moved into a coworking space provided by the specialist. "It solved all these problems in one go."     The specialist who came to Parekh's aid was neither a real estate agent nor any office management firm but the investor who provided the seed funding itself: Venture Catalysts, a Mumbai-based seed investment and innovation platform that provides coworking spaces, web hosting, cloud marketing and other value-added services to entrepreneurs — apart from funding and mentoring entrepreneurs in their early stages. "VCs are helping us stay focused on the core business," adds Parekh who also uses web hosting services offered by Venture Catalysts.     The nature of early-stage VC funding in India has been undergoing a tectonic shift over the last few years. Early-stage funds are now offering a bouquet of services to startups, from coworking spaces to marketing, PR and even hiring advice. The idea, they say, is to not let an entrepreneur get distracted during the first few crucial years of the startup. The role has now evolved into more of a collaborative and hand-holding support for startups during their initial phase, says Venture Catalysts cofounder Apoorv Ranjan Sharma.       Cofounded by Anil Jain, Anuj Golecha, Gaurav Jain and Sharma in December 2015, Venture Catalysts claims to be India's first seed investment and innovation platform. It has raised $5,00,000 fund so far and invested over $1.5 million in nine startups, including Confirmtkt, vPhrase, LenDenClub, Vahanalytics and CoutLoot. Venture Catalysts, contends Sharma, tries to facilitate and nurture unique ideas with immense potential to turn them into full-fledged businesses, and secure their survival during the process. "Many funded startups have shut down due to lack of guidance, business consulting and mentoring," he reckons. Venture Catalysts, which has tied up with global incubator Plug and Play to help startups get exposure to Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors, has an investment range from $2,50,000 to $5,00,000.    A Helping Hand   Venture Catalysts is not the only investor riding the value-added bandwagon. Take, for instance, Unicorn India Ventures. The Mumbai-based early stage VC fund that was cofounded by Anil Joshi and Bhaskar Majumdar in January 2016 offers hiring, compliance, accounting and an entrepreneur in residence programme t    o entrepreneurs, apart from regular funding and mentoring.     Ride-hailing app InstaCab pivoted to Roder, an intercity cab aggregator, on the advice of Anil Joshi, MD of Unicorn India Ventures. Roder cofounders Abhishek Negi, Siddhant Matre and Ashish Rajput wanted to create a niche in a crowded ride-hail market. But Joshi pointed out an unfulfilled demand in the intercity cab industry owing to an unorganised and expensive model of service.     Subsequently, InstaCab rebranded itself as Roder, and a couple of months later received its first round of funding from Unicorn India in January this year. "Advising a startup that shows potential and finally investing in it is a first-of-its-kind exercise by a VC fund," claims Joshi, whose `100-crore fund has invested in five startups, and has an investment range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore.     He points out another novel feature of Unicorn: hiring support. Negi, the 24-year-old cofounder of the Gurgaon-based Roder, points out that hiring the technology team was one of the foremost challenges. Unicorn helped in sourcing the right applicants, says Negi, adding that the intercity cab aggregator has scaled to 25 cites, provides one-way fares on over 700 routes, and works with a pool of 6,000 cabs.     The idea of having a more hands-on approach is not just confined to recently established funds. Even the older ones have started doing it. Take, for instance, Prime Venture Partners. The Bengaluru-based seedstage investment fund, which was cofounded in July 2011 by Sanjay Swamy, Shripati Acharya and Amit Somani, has created a "deep-involvement" model of working closely with tech startups during the first 12-18 months.     Seed stage is the time, reckons managing partner of Prime Venture Sanjay Swamy, when companies establish the core team and product-market fit, both of which are critical. Some of the most critical decisions are made during initial years of a company which have long term effects on both the company and the fund. "It is great to see that many VCs are now willing to take risks and work with entrepreneurs more closely than before," says Swamy whose fund has made a total investment of $20 million in 14 startups.     Swamy avers that building category-defining companies comes with a different set of challenges: there is no proven path, there are no defined rules, there are no rights or wrongs and there are more bad days than good ones. "And this is exactly where our deep-involvement model comes in," he says. Our commitment to entrepreneurs, Swamy explains, is that we will be available for them for any challenges they face, be they business issues, technology, sales and marketing or HR.     YourNest, an early-stage VC fund cofounded by Sunil K Goyal, Sanjay Pande and Girish Shivani in April 2011, has come up with its own version of extended handholding. It has started a three-day leadership summit for the founders and CXOs of its portfolio companies to foster mutual cooperation, learning and sharing of experiences. The change in the early stage VC sector is a great sign as the startup ecosystem evolves from a toddler to adolescence, says Sunil K Goyal.     Goyal feels that the trend in India is a mirror image of what has been happening at startups across the world. Many earlystage VCs in China and US offer startups a host of services like strategic advice on product development, new market entry, M&A; and help with team building, he says.    More than Money   An evolving ecosystem in India has made the job of earlystage VCs tougher as more and more VCs compete to fund deserving startups. It is, therefore, necessary for VCs to offer entrepreneurs more value than just the money, which they can raise from multiple sources. "Good early-stage VCs today live life like first-time entrepreneurs — with limited means but big audacious goals," adds Goyal. While VCs with entrepreneurial and operation experience of building businesses are seen to add value, Goyal is quick to clarify that VCs are not corporate headquarters of a corporation that would like to have strict control Rajesh Raju, MD of Kalaari Capital, one of the oldest early-stage VC firms in India, too sounds a word of caution while lauding the changing nature of the early stage investments. Over the years, the investment landscape has matured in India, with investors taking a more active interest in help building companies.        This is more of a necessity in early stage investments where the companies lack proper foundation. And this is more the case with Indian entrepreneurs, most of whom are first-timers. "But investors need to be very careful," says Raju, "in walking the fine line between being helpful and getting in the way." At the end of the day, the entrepreneur needs breathing room to bring his vision to life, he adds.     It was precisely this need for breathing space that forced a Gurgaon-based entrepreneur to request his early-stage VC fund to confine its role to mentoring and making business connections. "It was more like a tyrant teacher. For everything we needed to take permission," says the cofounder of the firm requesting anonymity. "There is a difference between handholding and running the company." If entrepreneurs can be trusted to handle millions of dollars and run the business, then they must be allowed to make mistakes and learn, he adds.     Neerav Parekh of vPhrase Analytics is aware of the pound of flesh extracted by investors for offering more services. "Nothing comes for free," he agrees. When VCs offer more services, they would obviously expect something, either in equity or hard cash. Yet, Parekh points out that it is a better bargain than "hunting for services or doing non-core things on your own. It's a win-win situation."      

