URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//koramangala-women-join-the-healthy-league-with-women-only-gym-contours/articleshow/51421660.cms

Title : Koramangala women join the healthy league with women-only gym Contours - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Women,Koramangala,Healthy,gym,Contours

Date :  Mar 11, 2016, 04.48 PM IST

Document ID : 414

Content:
 By Nivedita Mishra    Today when health is becoming the biggest concern in our daily life. Awareness on women health becomes an even more important issue. Contours, a women-only gym based out of Koramangala is taking the responsibility to do the job. The gym, located in the heart of Bengaluru with only female trainers is a bliss for the women who have been trying hard to hit the gym, but failed to do so, out of hesitation.     Contours, the chain of women's gyms is a part of an international chain called Contours Express, headquartered in the US. Introduced in India in 2006, it has 11 gyms across the country and is growing rapidly. Contours is a space that brings comfort to the women coming from different quarters of life, says the founder of Contours, Chandra Gopalan.     Veteran of 30 marathons & ultra marathons and an established marathon runner, Chandra launched contours in 2011. She has participated in events both local and abroad and has won several medals in her category. Her most recent accomplishment is an ultra-marathon distance of 100 Kms. In a candid conversation with Nivedita Mishra, Chandra Gopalan discusses about journey with Contours and shares her concerns and issues related to women health.      When did you Launch Contours in Koramangala?    We launched contours in July 2011    How many members do you have at present?    At present we have a total of 250 members.    Do you have members from Koramangala itself or from across the city?    We have members from Koramangala as well as the neighbouring areas like Taverekere, Adugodi, Bommanahalli etc.    What are your plans on raising awareness about women health?    We are constantly educating our members and women across the country about the benefits of exercise for good health, through our website blogs and social media pages.    Are you planning any event on women's day? Please elaborate?    We are conducting the 7th edition of the Contours Women's Day Run on 6th March at Embassy Golflinks. Being a gym, we conduct this event, so that people understand the benefit of fitness. We also do a lot of entertainment programmes to celebrate International women's Day, after the Run    People across the age-groups are becoming more and more health conscious. How do you see this trend? How has this trend change in last five years?    Women are still very focused on weight loss and their shape. Fitness is generally not understood well. We try and educate women to focus on muscle and respiratory fitness for better health. The awareness is slowly increasing, for sure, which will start showing results very soon.    What are the programmes that you are running at present?    We have different membership plans like Fat loss membership where we make the clients foucs on losing fat and building lean muscle mass. This results in a leaner, slimmer, fitter body frame, irrespective of the weight on the scale. While the fitness membership includes body tinning and group workouts.    Why did you use Koramangala as your centre to start with? Is it easier to get clients here in Koramangala?    Koramangala is a hub for working women. The IT industry is causing the maximum amount of ill health due to the sedentary jobs that they offer. Hence it made sense to have a gym in Koramangala.    Do you have corporate clients too?    Yes, we do have corporate clients but very few, because most corporates want to tie up with a health provider who provides services for women as well as men.    How tough it was to run a women only gym and how has been the response ever since the launch?    The response has been very good. Being a women only space, we find that we are able to retain customers much better than our competitors. Women love the comfort of workout in our gyms. Besides, we make our workouts a lot of fun.    -Who all are your competitors and how do you standout?    We have very few competitors as most gyms are unisex. We are not machine dependant like most gyms. We have a simple fun concept for women that works well. Contours is an international chain with a well-researched product. We ensure that customers want to work out at our gyms and not just need to workout    Is there any expansion plans on cards?    Yes. We want to get Contours into the Tier 2 and 3 cities of India, where women feel inhibited to workout with men. Health is for everybody, hence we would like every women to exercise.  

