URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/company/deals/india-bull-brookfield-may-invest-2-billion-more-in-2-years-as-plum-assets-come-up-for-grabs/articleshow/53223771.cms

Title : India Bull: Brookfield may invest $2 billion more in 2 years as plum assets come up for grabs - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : National Investment and Infrastructure Fund,Brookfield Asset Management,Brookfield

Date :  Jul 15, 2016, 01.04 AM IST

Document ID : 660

Content:
  MUMBAI: Brookfield, the Canadian asset manager could invest over $2 billion in India over the next 2-3 years to buyout upscale offices and commercial towers, stranded roads, power and utilities infrastructure as it aims to double its existing asset base in the country.     Fresh from raising $14 billion to invest in infrastructure, believed to be the largest single commitment to the sector of its kind, the Toronto-based group is believed to have been approached to partner the government's National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF), coming on board as one of the key sponsors to the Rs 40,000-crore corpus.    "We are buying into the long term India story. The overarching theme is one of exciting macro prospects amidst challenging micro prospects," Anuj Ranjan, Country Head, India, Brookfield Asset Management told ET over an hour long interaction to discuss the India blueprint, his first ever media interview since setting up shop here in 2009-10. "There are periods of time in most cycles and most countries when you have this sort of disconnect. India does have its share of challenges, but if you have the operating platforms, we don't think the challenges are insurmountable. Right now, we have the opportunity to go after the best assets."     Surpassing heavyweights Carlyle, KKR or even Apollo, Brookfield, is the world's 2nd biggest manager of alternative assets like real estate and private equity with $250 billion of assets.       In the last six years, Brookfield India has managed to break clutter and establish themselves as an owner and operator of high profile, chunky assets and complex businesses. In one of the largest commercial real estate transactions, Brookfield bought out Unitech Corporate Parks Plc. (UCP), a portfolio of six assets including special economic zones and information technology (IT) parks, in 2014 for around Rs 4700 crore. This August, Gammon Infrastructure Projects Ltd agreed to sell its portfolio of six road and three power projects to BIF India Holdings Pte. Ltd, an entity controlled by Brookfield and Core Infrastructure India Fund Pte. Ltd for an enterprise valuation of Rs 2000 crore.     "People forget that Gammon till recently was among the largest civil contractor in the country who had significant government contracts. They have built some phenomenal assets and most of them were operating and had consistent cash flows," explains Ranjan.     Post these acquisitions, Brookfield today is among the few foreign player to own 100 per cent of a roads and office portfolio in the country. It had also taken over the AIG Global Real Estate India's platform along with its 2 land parcels of 4 million square feet that are currently under active development. It started investing 2012-13, with $20 million in Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd's infrastructure fund and subsequently tied up with Peninsular Land for mezzanine lending to residential projects.     "We wanted to create different operating platforms that could then run businesses or assets effectively on their own. With the acquisitions and partnerships, we can now look at very operationally intensive businesses and sectors," said Ranjan, (37), who was born and bred in Edmonton, Alberta and came to India only for the 1st time in his life to open the local office.     Today those platforms are in place and with 400 people in the team, Brookfield rivals some of the biggest real estate and infrastructure companies in the country in heft.    Personally for Ranjan, Mumbai today is home and he doubts if he will go back to Canada anytime soon.    Distress opportunities    His baby face belies the aggression and intent but the distress and indebtedness across India Inc has given Ranjan the opportunity to cherry pick some of the marquee assets. Globally, the group also seeks to be countercyclical, buying during distressed periods. In India, in recent times its name as a potential suitor has repeatedly cropped up in almost all multi-billion M&A; transactions - from DLF or Hiranandani's office portfolio to Reliance's telecom towers.     "Our core areas -- property, infrastructure, power and private equity, that is building materials and industrial businesses -- happen to be where a lot of the stress is. But the assets themselves are not stressed, but are world class. They just happen to belong to businesses that are stressed," said Ranjan.    With most of the stressed assets on the banks' balance sheets sitting in core industries like steel or thermal power, the state owned banks aren't in the best position to run the businesses themselves. Many are already non-performing assets so can't necessarily get fresh funding.     Such troubled assets with dislocated capital structures need new sponsors. In cement, highlights Ranjan, larger Indian conglomerates like Kumar Mangalam Birla led Ultratech have stepped in to scoop up big portfolios but so far the interest from foreign companies and funds have been muted. That's where Brookfield thinks it offers its unique strengths by bringing not only the financial capital but also operational expertise, which is essential for turnarounds.     "People ask us whether we are we a strategic buyer or a PE fund. In fact, we are a strategic that evolved into a private equity fund over a decade ago, and so we actually bring both together."     Ranjan won't talk specifics but Brookfield is also believed to be in discussions with State Bank of India, the country's largest lender, about forming a joint venture and pooling in a billion dollars for the bank's stressed assets.    Prized offices    The firm, listed on the New York and Toronto exchanges, recently raised a $9bn property fund and has boosted its public profile after a series of high profile shopping spree. Last year it, bought London's Canary Wharf while in New York it is behind Brookfield Place, originally known as the World Financial Center, a complex of office buildings located across West Street from the World Trade Center site in the Battery Park City neighborhood of Manhattan.     "The main difference in our business is that it's very operationally focused. PE is just a form of financing. We are the largest investor in of our funds and invest about 30-40 per cent in any of our opportunistic funds. We are an asset manager but we are not in it just for asset management," explains Ranjan.     The obsession about operating and sweating assets is part of an organisational DNA. Being long dated with 10-12 years of investment horizon helps to take bolder bets and ride out business cycles.     Patience is always a virtue. It took Ranjan and his team two and a half years to complete the Unitech trade. "We like to do 100% acquisition. Secondly, we like to buy large scale portfolios which you can then grow instead of single asset opportunities, especially when we are new in a market. Finally, we wanted to buy a platform, with an operating team who can help us run a business," he recalls explaining the investment thesis.     Being among the largest owners of office space, Brookfield is now keen to expand in Mumbai, increase exposure down south and even in national capital region (NCR), there are opportunities for growth. Peer Blackstone - the largest PE fund in the world - is also the largest owner of office parks in the country, almost double of Brookfield's 16 million square foot portfolio.     "Looking at the rents that are in place, it doesn't necessarily make sense to buy new land, get new FSI and build new office. So without a whole lot of office supply probably coming online, but demand growing substantially, there is going to be improvement in rents," predicts Ranjan.     "Stable and even growing demand of the commercial real estate, low volatility of income streams and falling interest rates which can provide opportunity for value maximisation is a key attraction feels Amit Khandelwal, National Director and Partner, Transaction Advisory Services, EY. "Currently valuations are also reasonable and there is availability of some sizeable quality assets."    

