URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/low-crude-prices-hit-revenue-kaushik-roy-phillips-carbon-black/articleshow/53753052.cms

Title : Low crude prices hit revenue: Kaushik Roy, Phillips Carbon Black - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,united states,So,product,Phillips Carbon Black,markets,Market,India,in,global market,et now,ET,Crude oil,Business

Date :  Aug 18, 2016, 12.57 PM IST

Document ID : 626

Content:
  In a chat with ET Now, Kaushik Roy, MD & CEO, Phillips Carbon Black, says product price actually came down because of the crude oil price coming down as they mostly passed on the benefit to the customers. Edited excerpts       ET Now: Congratulations it has been a strong quarter for you. First, can you just tell us what has aided your margins because that has really been a standout feature?         Kaushik Roy:    Thanks. Coming to margin, I would like to clarify one thing, we are all looking at net profit which has moved from Rs 3 crore to Rs 12 crore, a four times improvement but actually we should also look at PBT which has gone up from Rs 5 crore to Rs 29 crore, almost five times. The reason why correspondingly net profit has not gone up is actually the deferred tax adjustment which is happening now which is not a cash but more of an accounting adjustment because of deferred tax.     We have talked about the reasons behind this improvement. We actually focused on quite a few things as an organisation and it all started with our customer focus and more. We focused more on the customer centricity, we could penetrate markets better and the sales volume grew. Other than this, we also looked parallely at efficiency improvement in all functions across the organisation whether it is sourcing or finance, where we can say that we have improved a lot.     Another focus area will be specialty black business and while it is still small compared to main business of carbon black, it has actually helped us improve our contribution and profitability. We have just started the journey. Going forward, it should be looking up from here on.        ET Now: You had earlier mentioned about some inventory issues as well have you all been able to transition to just in time inventory now?         Kaushik Roy:    We have major challenges in inventory in the past because primarily we used to source our raw material all the way from United States and due to this long lead time, we used to have very high inventory and whenever there is a market correction in the crude oil prices which happened in the past number of times, there used to be a huge amount of inventory loss. So in the current foreseen model, we have actually developed quite a few sources which are very close to our country. I can say more or less we overcome the challenges of inventory issue.        ET Now: What was the volume growth and realisation this quarter because we have seen a degrowth in the top line. What have been the reasons for that?         Kaushik Roy:    Compared to the last same quarter last year, the volume actually has gone up by about 14% but the reason the revenue has gone down is primarily because of the crash of crude oil prices. Our product price actually came down because of the crude oil price coming down as we passed on the benefit to our customer. Therefore, the revenue came down but the volume grew by 14% and that has also reflected on the profitability as we can see.        ET Now: Let us also talk about your exports than was one of your focused areas how has that done this time and what is your contribution from exports to the top line?         Kaushik Roy:    Well I will not say it is export I will say that we have changed our thought process, we say it is a global market so India is also part of the global market which is also equally important for us. With our current capacity after meeting Indian government and also having a long term tie up with some of the big global players we are doing about 25 to 30% of export international market sale we are doing 25% to 30% roughly so that is how the situation is right now. But honestly today we are almost in a situation where sold out completely so possibly it is time that we need to look for adding up capacity.        ET Now: Any expansion plans?         Kaushik Roy:    It is on the drawing board right now. We will be doing initially brownfield and eventually we will also think of greenfield project. It is definitely in the pipeline.  

