URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/kodak-launches-hd-led-tvs-starting-at-rs-13500/articleshow/53653234.cms

Title : Kodak launches HD LED TVs starting at Rs 13,500 - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : ShopClues,plastronics pvt ltd,Kodak,Flipkart,Amazon

Date :  Aug 11, 2016, 05.20 PM IST

Document ID : 234

Content:
  NEW DELHI: US-based technology firm Kodak today launched its HD LED TV series in partnership with Noida-based Super Plastronics Pvt Ltd (SSPL).     SPPL, which is Kodak's licensed partner, has launched five HD LED TVs in screen sizes of 32, 40 and 50 inches at a price point of Rs 13,500 and upwards.     The company would initially sell the TVs online with channel partners like Shopclues, Flipkart and Amazon. However, Shopclues will be launching its 32-inch series exclusively on its website.     "We also have an offline set up. We first want to be established and popular on online channels and then go offline. We will decide after this quarter how much time we will take in doing it," said SPPL Director Avneet Singh Marwah.     He added that the company has a pan India infrastructure with over 100 service centres.     Steven Overman, President, Kodak's Consumer and Film Division and Global Chief Marketing Officer said, "We are very pleased to partner with SPPL to address the burgeoning market for TV sets in India.     "Kodak has played a key role in the development of the entertainment industry in India and around the world. We look forward to providing consumers in India with a new range of great Kodak-branded products".     SPPL and Kodak have plans to launch 4K TV and curved TV series in the fourth quarter of this fiscal.     "We would be very aggressive in the price point for these series," he added.     The company would assemble Kodak range of LED TVs at its three units at Jammu, Noida and Una in Himachal Pradesh, he added.     It also has plans to spend up to 4 per cent of Kodak LED TV sales on marketing, most of which would be spent on digital platforms.     SSPL has brands Beltek, Crown, Prime and Suntek. It is also the Original Equipment Maker (OEM) for various leading panel brands.  

