URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/legal/startup-india-action-plan-the-workings-shortcomings/articleshow/53783471.cms

Title : Startup India Action Plan - The workings & shortcomings - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Startup India Action Plan,Startup India,startup,Private Limited Company,Partnership firm,LLP.,Limited Liability Partnership,incubator,DIPP

Date :  Aug 20, 2016, 12.55 PM IST

Document ID : 738

Content:
 By Parul Jain    While addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 70th Independence Day of India, the Prime Minister launched 'Start-up India' initiative to give boost to the groundbreaking entrepreneurial spirit of India's youth. The Startup India initiative aims at tapping this growth potential and creating an ecosystem 'minus the trappings of the system', to empower startups to grow through innovation and design.     To meet the objectives of this initiative, the government on January 16, 2016, unveiled an Action Plan highlighting various initiatives and schemes to build a strong ecosystem for nurturing innovations that will drive sustainable economic growth and generate greater employment opportunities. With this Action Plan, the aim is to spread the startup movement across various sectors covering agriculture, manufacturing, social sector, healthcare, education, information technology, etc, and from existing tier 1 cities to tier 2 and 3 cities including semi-urban and rural areas.    The definitions   The Action Plan defines a 'Startup' to mean an entity incorporated or registered in India not prior to 5 years, with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs 25 crore in any preceding financial year, and which is working towards innovation, development, deployment of new products, processes or services driven by technology or intellectual property. A firm involved in the mere act of developing a product or process, which does not have potential for commercialisation will not be categorised as a startup. Similalrly, development of an undifferentiated product or process or service or such products or processes or services which have no or low incremental value will not be considered to be covered within the definition of a startup.     Further, an entity formed by splitting up/ reconstruction, of business already in existence would not qualify as a startup. An entity can be set up as a private limited company, a registered partnership firm or a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP). Specifically in the context of partnership firms, such firms India are governed by the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. While it is not mandatory to get registration, but to avail the benefits under the startup initiative, an entity is required to register itself under the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act.     A startup once incorporated / registered, will also need to obtain recognition from the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) in order to be eligible for benefits under the Action Plan. The process of recognition entails obtaining a letter of recommendation from an incubator which is filed with DIPP along with the application.     Such an incubator could be recognised or funded by the Government of India or established in a post graduate college in India. In order to obtain tax and IPR related benefits, a startup shall also be required to be certified as an eligible business from the Inter-Ministerial Board of Certification. The process of registration as a startup is real time and a recognition certificate is issued immediately upon successful uploading of the application.    Stumbling blocks   As discussed, in order to qualify for the incentives, the startup would need to determine whether it would fit into the definition as notified by the Government of India. Whether the business of the startup entails development of new products, processes or service would need to be determined on a case by case basis.     An incubator who is responsible for issuing a letter of recommendation would be required to be convinced that the business activities do qualify as such. This is also especially since if it is later found that the incubator issued the letter of recommendation without satisfying itself, the incubator could be blacklisted by the Government from providing any further recommendations.     This process while not elaborate, could be inundating for a startup since the entrepreneur and the incubator could have different opinions with respect to the product / process / service being innovative. In order to make the process faster and more efficient, it would have been good if the Government would have allowed self-certification by entrepreneurs with severe penalties in the event that such a certification was found to be false subsequently.     This is also comparable to venture capital funds seeking registration as Category I Alternate Investment Fund with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), wherein the fund declares itself to be involved in the activity of investing primarily in unlisted securities of startups, emerging or early-stage venture capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new services, technology or intellectual property right based activities or a new business model, and is not required to seek any certification for this purpose.     As an alternate to obtaining a letter of recommendation from an incubator, a letter of funding from a Private Equity fund registered with the SEBI, and which has invested at least 20% in the startUp can also be submitted to the DIPP. However, the notification defining startups does not seem to be amply clear to state that a Foreign Venture Capital Investor ("FVCI") registered with SEBI would be eligible to provide such a letter of funding. It would be good if a clarification is provided on this aspect especially considering the fact that an FVCI has recently been permitted to invest in startups without foregoing benefits accorded to an FVCI.     On the whole, the Startup India Action Plan seems to be geared in the direction of following a westernised model of encouraging entrepreneurship and creating value. A few changes can make the process of recognition simpler. In the next series, we will examine the benefits accorded by the Action plan and the sufficiency of such benefits especially tax incentives to boot strap the startup economy.    The author is Partner, BMR & Associates LLP.   

