URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/brand-equity/talking-startups-focus-on-the-customer/articleshow/53722821.cms

Title : Talking startups: 'Focus on the customer' - The Economic Times



Date : Aug 17, 2016, 05.14 AM IST

Document ID : 293

Content:
By Idi Srinivas Murthy  A barrage of mixed signals is confusing a lot of bright, young, talented and passionate entrepreneurs. 'Valley-clones' are still fashionable. Great new ideas are getting funding; but again, clearly-washed-out-ideas are also getting additional funding. Is the 'funding winter" over or not? Do you pitch a 'unicorn' or 'cockroach' story?  The solution? Focus on the consumer and industry ecosystem. In its early days, Flipkart spotted a large consumer shift: India's burgeoning digitally connected and newly-middle-class youth. The first big consumer barrier was resolved by great customer service and focus on quality brands or standard products like books and mobiles. The second big insight was leveraged in the memorable "No Kidding, No Worries" campaign, breaking down attitudinal barriers to shopping online. The third big move catered to our inherent preference for cash payments. Catering to every big insight or barrier led to subsequent large upsides for the business.  Snapdeal entered later. While it quickly matched Flipkart's wares, it smartly picked a different insight: the untapped ambitions of millions of SMEs. Catering to them resulted in a highly efficient marketplace model that helped rapid scale up.  Myntra picked on the biggest consumer insight in the fashion industry - you don't buy clothes; you buy 'looking good or stylish'. Coupled with a generational shift towards urban, western-wear and more working women, the savvy 'fashion consultant' approach led to phenomenal momentum.  Of course, many factors worked for these companies, but at a minimum, they leveraged strong customer and ecosystem insights, across business operations. More recently, Rivigo Logistics achieved traction with a smart tech-enabled system that lets truckers work as if at a day or night shift job and also keeps vehicles moving. A great example of winning by being empathetic of the human aspects of the ecosystem.  But a 'fake insight' leads to a fake solution. Many "Artificial Intelligence-based" startups cannot articulate their real ecosystem or consumer insight. The 'revolutionary chatbot' mania still does not link to a clearly articulated problem. Internet of Things? How about the fact that, first, many more Indians need to get many more 'things'?  Often large but complex categories like financial and insurance products are built on insights you don't want to hear. Some heavily-funded players took Rs 50 crores to get to 10,000 policies a month. And then a general insurance startup like Renewbuy.com quietly bootstrapped to the same momentum! The difference? Renewbuy realised the purchase cycle requires a 'human "touch'. They combined this with a tech-platform. Heavily-funded players assumed enough advertising would overcome the need for a human touch-point. Lack of clarity on how people interact with a category can cost you dearly.  In the pre-owned mobile phone market, Cashify observed that the real resale value was a lot higher than what the neighbourhood mobile-retailer offered. A very creatively designed app experience made the additional value realisation, painless and smooth.  Many Indians want or need additional income, but in a flexible, frictionless way. Squadrun found a way to deliver additional income with flexibility and through the mobile phone or desktop. There are still many segments guaranteed to grow, but not enough startups playing there.  Familial redefinitions are an increasing theme with a growing number of single mothers and well-to-do ageing populations who need and can afford special assisted living spaces and services.  Assisted Internet usage for millions of Indians to get on the internet, or use it better.   These companies, leveraged strong customer and ecosystem insights, across business operations:  Idi Srinivas Murthy. (Image: BCCL)  Matching educational skills to what the job market needs. Hello English spotted a large consumer need - leveraging English language skills for upward mobility. The app demonstrates great insight into the learning process itself, and remains a record-breaker for truly organic downloads in India (excluding the obvious tech biggies). Even with many startups in this space, there remains more potential to segment the market in different ways and help accelerate employment significantly.  Rising urbanisation and growing middle classes are creating large demand for blue-collar skills. Some startups like Unnati.com are doing well thanks to their insights around enlisting and screening.  Consumer brands can serve niche gaps in quick-to-prepare (not ready to eat) food options, and regional preferences for specific cuisines and flavours. Despite the success of PaperBoat, Hokey Pokey, Bira91 and more - hundreds of vacant spaces remain untapped.  Preventive healthcare is a mystery to me. Urban Indians demonstrate high awareness of their massive 'health time-bomb'. Yet there is an army of under-utilised gyms and fitness centres. Large-sized prizes await entrepreneurs who can identify the right consumer insight to unlock this market at scale.  Just look at your consumers and the ecosystem that serves them - you'll see many more vacant spaces. Investors eagerly wait to hear about your passion to solve an Indian pain point and leverage deep consumer insights to do so. Serve thy consumers and thy investors shalt get automatically served.  P.S. My apologies in advance, if I missed out a good consumer insight example, or anyone feels unfairly slighted!  The author is a consultant and former CMO at Snapdeal. Views expressed are personal. 

