URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//fii-inflows-keep-stock-markets-on-uptrend/articleshow/12037899.cms

Title : FII inflows keep stock markets on uptrend - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : US,stock market,Spain,RBI,India,greece,FII

Date :  Feb 26, 2012, 07.07 AM IST

Document ID : 424

Content:
      The stock markets remained choppy last week after touching a six-month high. The markets began on a strong note in the beginning of the week, on the back of the Greece debt deal. However, later there was some profit booking due to concerns on the economic slowdown in the Euro region. The F&O; series expiry also put pressure on the markets. There was a good run-up during the month and traders preferred to book profits.             The market sentiment is bullish, supported by strong foreign institutional investor (FII) inflows, and supportive global and domestic factors. The US has been posting positive economic numbers over the last few months, and fears of the Euro zone crisis have subsided a bit.             On the domestic front, the inflation rate has come down and there are strong expectations that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will start softening the monetary policy in the coming months. However the valuations in the markets are no longer cheap, and are in an overbought zone. Small investors should not get carried away by the positive sentiments, and should take a cautious.             In the currency markets, the rupee strengthened further against the dollar due to the FII inflows and is in a narrow range.        These are some major factors that kept the markets ticking in the recent past and are expected to influence the movements in the short to medium terms:   Concerns in Euro zone        In Europe, the long-awaited and much-tracked development came through last week as Greece struck a deal with financial institutions and secured a financial bailout. After agreeing to the strict austerity measures, Greece managed to win the confidence of its lenders and secured a loan of Euro 130 billion.             The deal is expected to bring down Greece's debt from 160 percent of its GDP to 120 percent, and provide a window of opportunity to control its expenses in a planned manner. However, analysts are taking a cautious stand on the Greece bailout fund as the economy is in a severe slowdown. The new programme will push the country even deeper into recession and can lead to a default on its debts further down the line.             The latest economic data shows the Euro zone economy might slip into a recession this quarter. The manufacturing sector is already in a slowdown and the recent contraction in activity in the services sector has fuelled negative sentiments. On the other hand, the unemployment rate is very high in the region at above 10 percent. Spain and Greece are reporting higher unemployment numbers. Investors should remain cautious in the markets and track FII inflows to get a sense of near-term market direction.        Commodities strong        The commodity markets had some positive movement over the last couple of weeks due to the easing of uncertainty in the Euro region. Metals and precious metals had a bounce-back as the Euro gained ground against the US dollar. The price of crude oil also remained high due to uncertainty over Iran as well as the positive developments in the Euro region.             Analysts are expecting commodities to remain strong and go through more appreciation based on the developments in the Euro region in the near term.    

