URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/marketing-branding/branding/traversing-the-digital-path-to-market-brands/articleshow/53615053.cms

Title : Traversing the digital path to market brands - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Upgrad,Peyush Bansal,Lenskart,Facebook,Digital Marketing Conclave,Ashok Lalla

Date :  Aug 09, 2016, 02.40 PM IST

Document ID : 753

Content:
  "We still make mistakes every day," is how Lenskart's founder Peyush Bansal spoke about his startup's tryst with digital marketing. Bansal was speaking at the 'Digital Marketing Conclave' organised by the online education startup, UpGrad in IIT-Delhi on August 6 to launch their new programme on Digital Marketing.     Talking about different tools available to build a brand digitally, Bansal reiterated that the most important aspect of digital marketing still remained brand positioning. He stressed that the message can be tweaked to suit a platform, but it is the brand message that needs to be defined first. "You need to understand the message you want your brand to convey to your consumers. If feasible, hire a brand consultancy agency to hone the message. This is the first thing that you have to decide; marketing platforms come later," Bansal told to a group of avid digital marketers and young entrepreneurs.     Stating that digital is all about experimenting based on data, Bansal recounted how Lenskart had to change focus according to continuous feedback the company received. It was interesting to find out how in a country where two-third people have poor vision, an eyecare brand did not instantly take off. Initially, focussed on quality eye-care, Lenskart decided to reposition its brand as a fun eyecare brand which gave the startup an instant connect with its consumers.     "We had to revolutionise the segment so that people were not scared of eyewear. We had to take away the fear and replace it with a fun quotient," shared Bansal. However, he also warned against trying to revolutionise a segment from inception and urged budding entrepreneurs and digital marketers to understand the market first.     Cautioning his audience against giving up on digital mediums based on initial tepid response, Bansal insisted that it could be the strategy instead of the medium which needs dumping. "When people say that Facebook is not working for them, I believe it is not Facebook which might be a problem, but their content, the creatives or the wrong target audience that could be the issue," he added.     Reiterating Bansal's words was the Independent Digital and Marketing Advisor, Ashok Lalla, a veteran in digital marketing. Speaking on how the digital marketing has changed over the years, Lalla said today the digital space is full of noise and it is important to provide your brand with a distinct image.     "Today digital has become the mindset and earlier digital was used as an official platform, today it has become more user-oriented. Your Facebook page, LinkedIn profile have all become your websites," said Lalla.  

