URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com//koramangalas-cosmopolitan-hue-works-as-a-catalyst-for-growth-pankhuri-shrivastava-grabhouse/articleshow/51579892.cms

Title : Koramangala's cosmopolitan hue works as a catalyst for growth: Pankhuri Shrivastava, Grabhouse - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Pankhuri Shrivastava,Koramangala,Grabhouse

Date :  Mar 27, 2016, 10.09 PM IST

Document ID : 413

Content:
House-hunting in a new city has always been a costly business. But with the changing times and digital platform taking the charge, this task has become convinient in the past. Grabhouse, a digital platform which connects the tenant to the landlords directly without involving any brokers, is a novel step in this direction, which has been recieved very well. Pankhuri Shrivastava, who launched Grabhouse in 2013 shares her experineces with Nivedita Mishra on leading a realty platform in the digital space.  When did you start Grabhouse and how did the idea came to you?  Grabhouse was built based on personal experiences in the year 2013. Having stayed in Mumbai, coming from a different state, I faced lot of hurdles like anybody else in terms of house hunting and had felt the pinch. With no exception, I had seen and learnt my lessons hard with regards to house hunting; paid huge amounts in the name of brokerage, shifted flats for five times in a span of three years. This came to me as a realisation about the gap in the industry and how almost every second person around us is suffering due to it. My own experience was enough to trigger the idea to build a platform, and hence Grabhouse.  What was the seed money you had to put in?  We had participated in a boot camp which was organised by India Quotient and we were amongst the 10 companies who were selected by India Quotient to be a part of it. Once the boot camp got over, we were the only company to have the received initial funding from India Quotient. Post which, we were working on developing the product and it was interesting to get offers when we were not pitching to raise.  Our first pitch was the presentation which we had made to India quotient after the boot camp. This was more around business, the problem which we were looking to solve and how to solve the problem. At this time, we did not have a product ready it was mostly on our ideas and willingness to solve which got us the initial round. Post this India Quotient helped us get the Series-A funding. Investors were convinced with the fact that at that point we were the first one to go broker-free and also because we had innovative growth hacks and saw a lot of organic growth, without any marketing spends.  Tell us something about yourself?  I am born and raised in Jhansi, and my growing up years have been like any other kid. I completed my bachelors in Engineering from University of Bhopal. Post completion of my engineering I had the option of either doing my masters from premier B school's or take up the two-year fellowship at Teach for India. However, I decided to choose the later. Before Grabhouse, I used to teach in a municipal school in Mumbai as a part of my fellowship programme.  Did you face any challenge in the beginning? How was the response from the offline brokers?  The first challenge was that we had entered a cluttered market and we had to align ourselves to it and start doing business. Second and one major challenge we faced was that people till now had been used to taking the traditional route of house hunting through a broker. We being the first broker-free platform the major challenge was to get people accustomed to using the online way. Also getting the owners to list their properties on our platform as most of them were not tech savvy people and did not understand the convenience of doing things this way.  There was obviously certain amount of resistance which we faced from the existing brokers. But our focus always has been to serve the owners and the seekers and make renting out and taking up a house on rent easy. Eventually our strong focus helped us to do away with the resistance.  Of all the places in Bengaluru, why did you choose Koramangala to start with?  As we were looking to hire more and more tech savvy talent, we had to make a strategic decision of shifting our base to Bengaluru from Mumbai. Koramangala, was most sought after locality because of its young vibrant and cosmopolitan atmosphere which as a whole works as a catalyst for growth. Moreover, the kind of talent we were looking for are mostly available in this part of the city.  

