URL : http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/lyf-flame-1-review-get-it-solely-for-the-jio-network/articleshow/53754440.cms

Title : Lyf Flame 1 review: Get it solely for the Jio network - The Economic Times

Meta Keywords : Smartphone,Lyf Flame 1,Jio,4G

Date : Aug 18, 2016, 02.55 PM IST

Document ID : 394

Content:
  There is a lot of hype and demand for the Jio 4G network.However, there is no way to get a 4G SIM card from Jio unless you own one of the flagship smartphones from Samsung (the preview offer was recently extended to some Samsung handsets). The other way to get on the Jio network is to get a Lyf smartphone -it comes with the 90 day Jio 4G trial offer that gives you unlimited data, calls and SMS for that period.While there are cheaper phones available, the Flame 1 is the cheapest device that comes with Google Services preloaded.     Being a budget phone, the Flame 1 phone has an all-plastic body.The back panel has a glossy finish which is prone to fingerprints and scratches. Luckily, a soft silicon transparent case is included in the box for added protection.Power and volume keys are on the left side while the 3.5mm audio jack and microUSB charging slot are on the top. Overall, build quality of the phone is sturdy and it feels like it can handle a few bumps and drops.     The display is where the `entrylevel' feeling becomes evident. The 4.5-inch screen has poor viewing angles and shows washed out colour -this is probably because it's not an IPS screen that we're used to seeing but a TN (Twisted Nematic) screen. They're cheaper to produce but can't match the quality of a good IPS LCD. Also, the resolution of 854 X 480 pixels is a let-down -you can see individual pixels on the screen, especially visible in text. Under the screen are the usual Android buttons for back, home and recent apps -they offer capacitive touch and respond well but are not backlit.     Inside is a 1.1Ghz Qualcomm Snapdragon 210 quad-core processor, 1GB RAM and 8GB storage -powered by Android 5.1.For basic use like calls, SMS, social networking and multimedia, it works fine. However, it struggles with games and photo editing apps. Of the 8GB inter nal storage, Android takes up 3.5GB and various Jio preloaded apps also consume storage -you are left with less than 4GB for your own apps and data. There is a mi croSD slot for expansion and it supports a maximum of 32GB cards. The 2,000mAh battery goes from 100 to 10% from 9am to 5pm with mix usa g e -this means you probably be charging twice a day. What is more impressive is the standby time -with 4G connected, the battery drains by just 5% overnight.     As is usual with entry-level phones, cameras are average performers. The rear 5MP autofocus camera is quick to focus and has a fast shutter speed but the results are lackluster. Images appear good on-screen but on close inspection, images lack detail and have lots of noise. The good thing is that the camera interface offers various shooting modes such as portrait, landscape, sports, flowers, backlight, candlelight, sunset, night, beach and snow. Video recording is limited to 720p HD resolution. Up front is a 5MP fixed focus selfie camera which has a handy face detection function. However, image results are often blurry, lack details and suffer from excessive noise. Really, the camera quality on this phone is best not mentioned at all.     Once you stop thinking of the preloaded Jio apps as bloatware, a couple of them may come in handy. You get Jio beats (an adfree music library for streaming and offline download of music), JioPlay (multiple LiveTV channels), JioOndemand (full HD moviesTV series), JioMoney (digital wallet) and JioChat. All of these services, combined with the fantastic 4G speeds on offer deliver a great experience. The phone also supports VoLTE calling to other Jio numbers. VoLTE calls connect much faster than typical GSM calls and the voice is louder and clearer.     As mentioned above, this is the cheapest phone you can get with Google services to get on the Jio network. While the phone is an average device overall, it's the bundled Jio Sim card with 90 days of unlimited usage that makes it worth getting. If nothing else, you can use the phone as a hotspot and enjoy the great 4G speeds on your other devices.  

